ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019
ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC

CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
IFC T
erms and abbreviations
2 A
bout this Report
STRATEGIC REPORT
6
 C
hair’s message
8 C
hief Executive Officer’s review
10 S
elected financial data
12 S
hell story
19 S
trategy and outlook
23 S
ection 172(1) statement
27 Ri
sk factors
37 Ma
rket overview
40 S
ummary of results
42 P
erformance indicators
45 I
ntegrated Gas
52 
Upstream
61 Oi
l and gas information
70 
Downstream
79 
Corporate
80 L
iquidity and capital resources
84 E
nvironment and society
91 
 C
limate change and energy 
transition
99 O
ur people
GOVERNANCE
Directors’ Report
104
  T
he Board of Royal Dutch 
Shell plc
111 S
enior Management
113
 I
ntroduction from the Chair
115
   
Statement of compliance with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code
117 G
overnance framework
119
 B
oard evaluation and activities
122
  Un
derstanding and engaging 
with our stakeholders
124
 W
orkforce engagement
126
  N
omination and Succession 
Committee
128
  S
afety, environment and 
sustainability committee
129
 Au
dit Committee Report
135
 D
irectors’ Remuneration Report
139
 A
nnual Report on Remuneration
155
 D
irectors’ Remuneration Policy
164
  O
ther Regulatory and Statutory 
Information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AND SUPPLEMENTS
174
 
 I
ndependent Auditor’s Report 
related to the Consolidated 
and Parent Company Financial 
Statements
190
 
 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
239 
 
Supplementary information 
– oil and gas (unaudited)
257 
 P
arent Company Financial 
Statements
266 
 I
ndependent Auditors’ Reports 
related to the Royal Dutch Shell 
Dividend Access Trust Financial 
Statements
268
 
 R
oyal Dutch Shell Dividend 
Access Trust Financial Statements
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
274
 S
hareholder information
279 
 
Non-GAAP measures 
reconciliations
282 
 A
ppendix 1: Significant 
Subsidiaries and Other Related 
Undertakings (Audited)
Cover image: The Pecten is the key symbol of the Shell Brand. It is sometimes referred 
to as our icon, logo or emblem, and is one of the world’s most recognised symbols. It is an 
asset with enormous value, and a key enabler of successful business through our customers, 
governments, business partners, contractors and staff. It has been at the core of our 
branding for over 100 years.
Design and production: Friend www.friendstudio.com
Print: Tuijtel under ISO 14001

TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
Miscellaneous
ADS American Depositary Share
AGM Annual General Meeting
API American Petroleum Institute
CCS carbon capture and storage
CCS earnings earnings on a current cost of supplies basis
CO2 carbon dioxide
EMTN Euro medium-term note
EPS earnings per share
FCF free cash flow
FID final investment decision
GAAP generally accepted accounting principles
GHG greenhouse gas
HSSE health, safety, security and environment
IAS International Accounting Standard
IEA International Energy Agency
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard(s)
IOGP International Association of Oil & Gas Producers
IPIECA International Petroleum Industry Environmental 
Conservation Association (global oil and gas 
industry association for environmental and 
social issues)
LTIP Long-term Incentive Plan
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation 
and Development
OML oil mining lease
OPEC Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
OPL oil prospecting licence
PSC production-sharing contract
PSP Performance Share Plan
REMCO Remuneration Committee
SEC US Securities and Exchange Commission
TRCF total recordable case frequency
TSR total shareholder return
WTI West Texas Intermediate
Currencies
$ US dollar
€ euro
£ sterling
Units of measurement
acre approximately 0.004 square kilometres
b(/d) barrels (per day)
boe(/d) barrels of oil equivalent (per day); natural gas 
volumes are converted into oil equivalent using 
a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel
kboe(/d) thousand barrels of oil equivalent (per day); 
natural gas volumes are converted into oil 
equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel
MMBtu million British thermal units
megajoule a unit of energy equal to one million joules
mtpa million tonnes per annum
per day volumes are converted into a daily basis 
using a calendar year
scf(/d) standard cubic feet (per day)
Products
GTL gas to liquids
LNG liquefied natural gas
LPG liquefied petroleum gas
NGL natural gas liquids

“Shell’s business strategy provides 
the continuity, resilience and growth 
we will need to deliver change: to 
play an essential role in the move  
to a cleaner, lower-carbon world.”
CHAD HOLLIDAY 
Chair
“When I look at Shell, I see people 
with high hopes and social 
commitment. We wholeheartedly 
support the goal of the Paris 
Agreement.”
BEN VAN BEURDEN 
Chief Executive Officer
1
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019

2
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
ABOUT THIS REPORT
The Royal Dutch Shell plc Annual Report (this Report) serves as the Annual 
Report and Accounts in accordance with UK requirements for the year 
ended December 31, 2019, for Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Company) and 
its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as Shell). This Report presents the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of Shell (pages 190-238), the Parent 
Company Financial Statements of Shell (pages 258-265) and the 
Financial Statements of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust 
(pages 269-271). Except for these Financial Statements, the numbers 
presented throughout this Report may not sum precisely to the totals 
provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute 
figures due to rounding.
The financial statements contained in this Report have been prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
as issued by the IASB. IFRS as defined above includes interpretations 
issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee. Financial reporting 
terms used in this Report are in accordance with IFRS. 
This Report contains certain following forward-looking Non-GAAP 
measures such as cash capital expenditure and divestments. We are 
unable to provide a reconciliation of these forward-looking Non-GAAP 
measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures because 
certain information needed to reconcile those Non-GAAP measures to 
the most comparable GAAP financial measures is dependent on future 
events some of which are outside the control of the company, such as oil 
and gas prices, interest rates and exchange rates. Moreover, estimating 
such GAAP measures with the required precision necessary to provide 
a meaningful reconciliation is extremely difficult and could not be 
accomplished without unreasonable effort. Non-GAAP measures 
in respect of future periods which cannot be reconciled to the most 
comparable GAAP financial measure are calculated in a manner 
which is consistent with the accounting policies applied in Royal 
Dutch Shell plc’s financial statements. 
The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly or indirectly own 
investments are separate legal entities. In addition to the term “Shell”, in 
this Report “Shell Group”, “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to the 
Company and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. 
These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying 
the particular entity or entities. “Subsidiaries” and “Shell subsidiaries” refer 
to those entities over which the Company has control, either directly or 
indirectly. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell 
has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint 
operations”, respectively. “Joint ventures” and “joint operations” are 
collectively referred to as “joint arrangements”. Entities over which Shell 
has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred 
to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to 
indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in 
an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all 
third party interest. Shell subsidiaries’ data include their interests 
in joint operations.
This Report contains data and analysis from Shell’s Sky scenario. 
Unlike Shell’s previously published Mountains and Oceans exploratory 
scenarios, the Sky scenario is based on the assumption that society 
reaches the Paris Agreement’s goal of holding the rise in global average 
temperatures this century to well below two degrees Celsius (2°C) above 
pre-industrial levels. Unlike Shell’s Mountains and Oceans scenarios which 
unfolded in an open-ended way based upon plausible assumptions and 
quantifications, the Sky scenario was specifically designed to reach the 
Paris Agreement’s goal in a technically possible manner. These scenarios 
are a part of an ongoing process used in Shell for over 40 years to 
challenge executives’ perspectives on the future business environment. 
They are designed to stretch management to consider even events that 
may only be remotely possible. Scenarios, therefore, are not intended to 
be predictions of likely future events or outcomes and investors should not 
rely on them when making an investment decision with regard to Royal 
Dutch Shell plc securities.
It is important to note that Shell’s existing portfolio has been decades 
in development. While we believe our portfolio is resilient under a wide 
range of outlooks, including the IEA’s 450 scenario (World Energy 
Outlook 2016), it includes assets across a spectrum of energy intensities 
including some with above-average intensity. While we seek to enhance 
our operations’ average energy intensity through both the development 
of new projects and divestments, we have no immediate plans to move to 
a net-zero emissions portfolio over our investment horizon of 10-20 years. 
Although we have no immediate plans to move to a net-zero emissions 
portfolio, in November of 2017 , we announced our ambition to reduce 
our Net Carbon Footprint in step with society’s progress towards the 
Paris Agreement’s goal of holding the rise in global average temperatures 
this century to well below 2°C above pre
-i
ndustrial levels. Accordingly, 
assuming society aligns itself with the Paris Agreement’s goals, we aim to 
reduce our Net Carbon Footprint, which includes not only our direct and 
indirect carbon emissions, associated with producing the energy products 
which we sell, but also our customers’ emissions from their use of the 
energy products that we sell, by around 20% in 2035 and by around 
50% in 2050.
Shell’s “Net Carbon Footprint” referred to in this Report includes Shell’s 
carbon emissions from the production of our energy products, our 
suppliers’ carbon emissions in supplying energy for that production, and 
our customers’ carbon emissions associated with their use of the energy 
products we sell. Shell only controls its own emissions but, to support 
society in achieving the Paris Agreement goals, we aim to help such 
suppliers and consumers to likewise lower their emissions. The use of the 
term Net Carbon Footprint” is for convenience only and not intended to 
suggest these emissions are those of Shell or its subsidiaries.
Introduction

Except where indicated, the figures shown in the tables in this Report are 
in respect of subsidiaries only, without deduction of any non-controlling 
interest. However, the term “Shell share” is used for convenience to refer 
to the volumes of hydrocarbons that are produced, processed or sold 
through subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. All of a subsidiary’s 
production, processing or sales volumes (including the share of joint 
operations) are included in the Shell share, even if Shell owns less than 
100% of the subsidiary. In the case of joint ventures and associates, 
however, Shell-share figures are limited only to Shell’s entitlement. In 
all cases, royalty payments in kind are deducted from the Shell share.
Except where indicated, the figures shown in this Report are stated in 
US dollars. As used herein all references to “dollars” or “$” are to the 
US currency.
This Report contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial 
condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All statements 
other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, 
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements 
of future expectations that are based on management’s current 
expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks 
and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events 
to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. 
Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements 
concerning the potential exposure of Shell to market risks and statements 
expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, 
projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are 
identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, 
“anticipate”, “believe”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “goals”, “intend”, 
“may”, “objectives”, “outlook ”, “plan”, “probably”, “project”, “risks”, 
“schedule”, “seek”, “should”, “target”, “will” and similar terms and phrases. 
There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of 
Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those 
expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this Report, 
including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural 
gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; 
(d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market 
share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) 
risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition 
properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of 
such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries 
and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal 
and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing 
climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various 
countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation 
and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, 
delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the 
reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. 
Also see “Risk factors” on pages 27-36 for additional risks and further 
discussion. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments 
will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking 
statements contained in this Report are expressly qualified in their entirety 
by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. 
Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. 
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this Report. 
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation 
to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of 
new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, 
results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from 
the forward-looking statements contained in this Report. 
This Report contains references to Shell’s website, the Shell Sustainability 
Report, Tax Contribution Report, Shell Industry Association Report and 
our report on Payments to Governments. These references are for the 
readers’ convenience only. Shell is not incorporating by reference any 
information posted on www.shell.com or in the Shell Sustainability 
Report, Tax Contribution Report, Shell Industry Association Report 
and our report on Payments to Government.
Shell V-Power and Shell LiveWire are Shell trademarks.
DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY
This Report is also available, free of charge, at www.shell.com/
annualreport or at the offices of Shell in The Hague, the Netherlands 
and London, United Kingdom. Copies of this Report also may be 
obtained, free of charge, by mail. 
3
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019

4
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
6 C hair’s message
8 C
hief Executive Officer’s review
10 S
elected financial data
12 S
hell story
19 S
trategy and outlook
23 S
ection 172(1) statement
27 Ri
sk factors
37 Ma
rket overview
40 S
ummary of results
42 P
erformance indicators
45 I
ntegrated Gas
52 
Upstream
61 Oi
l and gas information
70 
Downstream
79 
Corporate
80 L
iquidity and capital resources
84 E
nvironment and society
91 C
limate change and energy transition
99 O
ur people
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
Strategic Report

5
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Strategic Report

6
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
CHAIR’S MESSAGE
MORE AND 
CLEANER ENERGY
In 2019, we took significant steps to build trust through greater 
transparency. We published our Tax Contribution Report, detailing for 
the first time the corporate income tax we paid in countries and locations 
where we have a taxable presence. In our Industry Associations Climate 
Review, we assessed Shell’s alignment with 19 industry associations on 
climate change, deciding to leave one of them as a result. In business, 
we will only succeed if we stay in step with society and provide products 
our customers will buy.
In the coming years, as the urgency around climate change grows, our 
customers will want cleaner energy to power their homes, businesses, 
and transport. We intend to move with them, investing in power from 
natural gas and renewable sources such as wind and solar, building 
charging networks for electric cars, developing lower-carbon biofuels 
that will not compete with crops for land.
But global demand for energy is still growing, as population increases and 
more people seek a better quality of life. Among those seeking to improve 
their living standards are almost a billion who have no electricity supply at 
all, 2 billion who lack a toilet connected to a proper sewer system, and 
785 million – around one-tenth of the world’s population – who have 
no easy access to safe drinking water. There is much more to be done, 
although we have also seen remarkable progress in improving lives. In 
1900, the average newborn baby had a life expectancy of 32 years. 
Today, worldwide average life expectancy is 73 years. Access to energy 
played a part in this, for example reinforcing advances in health care by 
powering life-saving machinery, from refrigerators to store drugs through 
to incubators for newborn babies. 
As the world seeks to make more progress, renewable sources will meet 
a growing share of rising energy demand, but the need for oil and gas 
will remain for decades to come. In Shell, as we shape our businesses 
to deliver more and cleaner energy, we must also continue to invest 
responsibly in developing conventional oil and gas resources. This 
generates billions of dollars in revenue, allowing us to reward our investors 
with dividends. Crucially, it also provides the financial muscle to invest in 
cleaner forms of energy. 
COMMUNITIES BENEFITING FROM OIL AND GAS
Building that financial muscle often requires considerable ingenuity. In 
the North Sea off Scotland, for instance, we are developing some of 
the most difficult natural gas fields, such as Fram, operated by Shell and 
owned as a joint venture with Esso. By developing Fram, we can unlock 
the full potential of other fields too. Discovered in 1969, Fram was left 
undeveloped for more than 50 years because there seemed to be no 
cost-effective way to produce its resources. Until now. To keep costs down, 
Shell intends to turn a field reaching the last of its gas, Starling, into a 
staging post. An underwater pipeline laid in 2019 will start taking 41 
million standard cubic feet of natural gas a day, plus condensates, 
from Fram to Starling. From Starling, it can flow through an existing 
pipeline to our Shearwater platform, before coming ashore at our 
St Fergus gas plant.
As the world changes, it challenges us all to make choices. We 
can stay the same and risk being left behind. Or we can change, 
while building on what we know is long-lasting and valuable.
In 2019, people all over the world, many of them very young, demanded 
change. They demanded urgent action to protect the climate: change to 
our lifestyles, change to how the world produces and uses energy. As John 
F. Kennedy said, “Time and the world do not stand still. Change is the law 
of life.” He added a vital point for anyone wanting to thrive in such a 
world: “Those who look only to the past or the present are certain to 
miss the future.”
In business, the smartest way to change is to build on your strengths, not 
abandon them. Shell’s business strategy provides the continuity, resilience 
and growth we will need to deliver change: to play an essential role in the 
move to a cleaner, lower-carbon world. We are working to become one 
of the world’s best investment cases. We must also keep making a positive 
contribution to people’s lives, to maintain what we call our strong societal 
licence to operate. By getting this right, we will seek to thrive through the 
transition to a lower-carbon future. We will always abide by our core 
values – honesty, integrity, and respect for people. Our belief in trust, 
and the need to nurture it, will also stay as strong as ever.
CHAD HOLLIDAY
Chair
Strategic Report

7
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
This should also help secure Shearwater’s future, allowing it to keep 
supplying the UK with energy into the 2030s. Local communities stand 
to benefit. Our North Sea oil and gas operations employ 1,000 people 
directly, but generate economic activity that supports a further 28,000 
jobs outside Shell [A].
In Nigeria, gas from our Assa North field, which is expected to start 
production around 2022, will improve the reliability of the country’s 
electricity supplies. Nearby communities are already benefiting from a 
Shell programme that has so far helped more than 11,000 local children 
and adults get free health care.
These are just two examples of how Shell delivers the oil and gas needed 
to strengthen economies and offer opportunities for local people. But as 
we focus on delivering today, we must be sure not to miss the future.
TAPPING THE POTENTIAL OF HYDROGEN
Hydrogen, for example, could play a vital role in helping the move 
towards a lower-carbon world. Hydrogen can be extracted using the 
electricity generated by wind and solar power. It can then be stored, 
ready to be converted back to electricity with only one by-product, water. 
Shell is already working to increase the use of hydrogen, for example 
with refuelling sites for hydrogen-powered vehicles in Europe and North 
America. But we would like to open up more possibilities for using 
hydrogen, across heating, power and transport, helping it to become 
a significant fuel of the future. 
We are contributing to the development of a ship called the Suiso Frontier, 
which launched in December 2019, in Kobe, Japan. By 2021 it is expected 
to be the world’s first vessel to transport liquefied hydrogen across oceans, 
at temperatures of minus-253 Celsius. 
Shell is working with Kawasaki Heavy Industries and others to design 
the tank holding the liquefied hydrogen and develop further novel 
technologies for the ship. Those we have consulted include the USA’s 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). They know 
how to handle liquefied hydrogen. They use it as rocket fuel. 
The Suiso Frontier is expected to allow us to develop and demonstrate 
the technologies needed for a commercial-scale hydrogen supply chain 
by around 2030. It shows the critical importance of technology – one 
of Shell’s core strengths – in the energy transition. By building on our 
strengths while embracing change as “the law of life”, we can help 
address those calls for more urgent action on climate change. With 
more and cleaner energy, we can make a better future. 
CHAD HOLLIDAY
Chair
[A]  U niversity of Strathclyde Fraser of Allander Institute and Aberdeen & Grampian 
Chamber of Commerce.
“Those who look only to 
the past or the present are 
certain to miss the future.”
– John F. Kennedy
OUR NORTH SEA 
OPERATIONS HELP SUPPORT
28,000
JOBS OUTSIDE SHELL
HELPING DESIGN WORLD’S FIRST  
VESSEL TO TRANSPORT LIQUEFIED 
HYDROGEN AT
-253°C
INVESTING IN POWER FROM 
RENEWABLE SOURCES
The Shearwater platform in the UK North Sea is now 
expected to be able to keep supplying energy into the 2030s.
Shell has invested in the Silicon Ranch Corporation, 
a US solar power generator. 
The Suiso Frontier is expected to be the first ship 
to transport liquefied hydrogen across oceans.
Strategic Report

8
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
INVESTING FOR THE FUTURE, 
DELIVERING TODAY
SAFETY 
I am, however, deeply saddened that seven people died while working for 
Shell in 2019. This is unacceptable. Each death inflicts unimaginable grief 
on the bereaved family. In Shell, work colleagues mourn. Every person lost 
is a tragedy. When it comes to safety, we have much more to do. We have 
responded by introducing a new approach alongside our continuing 
efforts to review and improve accident-prevention procedures 
wherever possible. 
Our new approach acknowledges that people occasionally make 
mistakes, and that sometimes the dangerous and unexpected happens 
even after you follow every safety procedure.
This is not to make excuses. It is to be realistic, and to enable us to do more 
about it. We can look more closely at how people perform in the moment 
when things go wrong: when they make mistakes, or processes fail. We 
can train our people to be even better at dealing with the unexpected. 
This is demanding, but we want to get to a place where even if there is 
an incident, everyone emerges unhurt. They go home, alive and well, 
to their family.
CLIMATE CHANGE
I believe Shell has a constructive approach to the greatest global 
challenge of our times. In 2019, many protested about climate change, 
sometimes directly targeting Shell. This may feel uncomfortable, but the 
spotlight thrown on Shell also gives us an opportunity to explain to a 
wider audience how we can be an important part of the solution. 
Perhaps this starts with acknowledging our common humanity. 
When I look at climate change protesters, I see people who, in the 
overwhelming majority, act from a wholly justified determination to 
safeguard our planet. I share many of their frustrations that some 
things do not seem to be moving fast enough. 
I welcome all peaceful efforts to encourage society to shift towards 
lower-carbon energy, as it must. And when I look at Shell, I see people 
with equally high hopes and social commitment. We wholeheartedly 
support the goal of the Paris Agreement to limit the global average 
temperature rise to well below two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial 
levels. We also know the energy transition is unfolding, and we must 
be part of it if we are to survive as a business. As I have often said, 
those companies that do not stay in step with society will be left 
behind. Those who are not trusted will be left behind too. Shell 
must and will be transparent. 
In 2019, for example, we published our first Tax Contribution Report, 
detailing the corporate income tax we paid in countries and locations 
where we have a taxable presence. We also published our Industry 
Associations Climate Review, leaving one group because its position 
on climate change diverged too much from ours.
In a tough year, Shell demonstrated its resilience by delivering 
credible results on several fronts. We made progress in the face of 
economic headwinds such as low oil and gas prices, limited global 
growth, and reduced chemical and refining margins.
Our cash flow from operating activities was strong compared to our 
industry peers, at $42.2 billion. We distributed more than $25 billion 
to shareholders: $15.2 billion in dividends, and $10.2 billion in share 
buybacks. By the end of January 2020, we had delivered $14.75 billion 
of our $25 billion buyback programme, which began in 2018.
The headwinds did contribute to some negative factors in our financial 
performance. Gearing increased from 20% to 29%, which is equivalent to 
25% on an IAS 17 accounting basis. Income was $16.4 billion, down from 
$23.9 billion in 2018. Earnings on a current cost of supplies (CCS) basis 
were $15.8 billion, down from $24.4 billion in 2018.
Overall, though, Shell’s financial foundations remained strong. We 
continued to show financial discipline by limiting our cash capital 
expenditure to $24 billion, at the lower end of the range that we 
said we would spend. We improved the resilience and quality 
of our portfolio by making around $5 billion-worth of divestments. 
BEN VAN BEURDEN 
Chief Executive Officer 
Strategic Report

9
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
OUR STRATEGY
Shell’s strategy sets out our three clear ambitions: to thrive in the energy 
transition, provide a world-class investment case, and sustain a strong 
societal licence to operate. In 2019, to help achieve all three ambitions, 
we refreshed our strategy to focus more strongly on developing our 
Power business. 
If the world is to tackle climate change, it must consume more of 
its energy in the form of electricity. This is a huge potential growth 
opportunity for Shell, one we are well positioned to seize. Shell has the 
brand, the global presence, the retail and marketing expertise that you 
need when buying and selling electricity and interacting with customers. 
We are a worldwide supplier of natural gas, a cleaner alternative to 
coal for electricity generation.
We are actively seeking to increase our investments in renewable power. 
In 2019, for example, Shell acquired ERM Power, one of Australia’s leading 
commercial and industrial electricity retailers.
We continued to work towards delivering on our Net Carbon Footprint 
ambition to cut the intensity of the greenhouse gas emissions of the energy 
products we sell by around 50% by 2050, and as an interim step by 20% 
by 2035. 
As part of this ambition, we launched a worldwide programme that uses 
trees and other plants to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. 
We will be protecting, planting or regenerating forests, grasslands and 
wetlands, in what we call our nature-based solutions programme. 
Carbon-neutral driving schemes are allied to this. Motorists in the 
Netherlands and the UK can now offset their fuel emissions by having 
Shell purchase nature-based carbon credits on their behalf. 
While investing for the future, we must also meet the energy demand 
of today. Our core oil and gas business delivered significant projects 
in 2019. In March, production started at our Appomattox floating 
production system in the Gulf of Mexico, which is expected to produce 
175,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day at its peak. In June, the first 
shipment of liquefied natural gas left the Prelude floating liquefied 
natural gas facility off Australia.
As we look forward to 2020 and beyond, we must be firm in our belief 
that our business strategy is sound and our financial foundations strong. 
We believe Shell’s underlying resilience will stand us in good stead for 
the challenges to come.
BEN VAN BEURDEN 
Chief Executive Officer 
In 2019, Shell published its first Tax Contribution Report.
Shell UK is working with Forestry and Land Scotland to preserve and 
extend the ancient forest of Glengarry, in the Scottish Highlands.
Production has started at Shell’s Appomattox deep-water 
asset in the US Gulf of Mexico.
Strategic Report

10
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The selected financial data set out below are derived, in part, from the “Consolidated 
Financial Statements”. These data should be read in conjunction with the “Consolidated 
Financial Statements” and related Notes, as well as with this Strategic Report. 
$ million 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Revenue 344,877 388,379 305,179 233,591 264,960
Income for the period 16,432 23,906 13,435 4,777 2,200
Income attributable to non-controlling interest 590 554 458 202 261
Income attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 15,842 23,352 12,977 4,575 1,939
Comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 13,773 24,475 18,828 (1,374) (811)
Consolidated Statement of Income and of Comprehensive Income data
344,877
Revenue ($ million)
15,842
Income attributable to 
Royal Dutch Shell plc 
shareholders ($ million)
16,432
Income for the period ($ million)
13,773
Comprehensive income 
attributable to Royal Dutch 
Shell plc shareholders ($ million)
590
Income attributable to non-
controlling interest ($ million)
404,336
Total assets ($ million)
186,476
Equity attributable to 
Royal Dutch Shell plc 
shareholders ($ million)
96,424
Total debt ($ million)
3,987
Non-controlling 
interest ($ million)
657
Share capital ($ million)
$ million 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Total assets 404,336 399,194 4 07, 0 9 7 411,275 340,157
Total debt 96,424 76,824 85,665 92,476 58,379
Share capital 657 685 696 683 546
Equity attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 186,476 198,646 194,356 186,646 162,876
Non-controlling interest 3,987 3,888 3,456 1,865 1,245
Consolidated Balance Sheet data
Strategic Report

11
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
1.97
Basic earnings per €0.07 ordinary share ($)
1.95
Diluted earnings per €0.07 ordinary share ($)
42,178 
Cash flow from operating 
activities ($ million)
15,198
Cash dividends paid to Royal Dutch 
Shell plc shareholders ($ million)
22,971
Capital expenditure ($ million) 
10,188
Repurchases of shares ($ million)
15,779
Cash flow from investing 
activities ($ million)
1.88
Dividend per share ($)
$ million 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Cash flow from operating activities 42,178 53,085 35,650 20,615 29,810
Capital expenditure 22,971 23,011 20,845 22,116 26,131
Cash flow from investing activities 15,779 13,659 8,029 30,963 22,407
Cash dividends paid to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 15,198 15,675 10,877 9,677 9,370
Repurchases of shares 10,188 3,947 – – 409
8,058.3
Basic weighted average number 
of A and B shares (million)
8,112.5
Diluted weighted average number 
of A and B shares (million)
$ 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Basic earnings per €0.07 ordinary share 1.97 2.82 1.58 0.58 0.31
Diluted earnings per €0.07 ordinary share 1.95 2.80 1.56 0.58 0.30
$ 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Dividend per share 1.88 1.88 1.88 1.88 1.88
Million 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Basic weighted average number of A and B shares 8,058.3 8,282.8 8,223.4 7, 8 3 3 . 7 6,320.3
Diluted weighted average number of A and B shares 8,112.5 8,348.7 8,299.0 7, 8 91 . 7 6,393.8
Earnings per share
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows data
Dividend per share
Shares
Strategic Report

12
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SHELL STORY: WHO WE ARE
Shell is a global group of energy and petrochemical companies 
with 83,000 employees in more than 70 countries.
We have expertise in the exploration, production, refining and marketing of oil 
and natural gas, and the manufacturing and marketing of chemicals.
We use advanced technologies and take an innovative approach to help build 
a sustainable energy future. We also invest in power, including from low-carbon 
sources such as wind and solar; and new fuels for transport, such as advanced 
biofuels and hydrogen.
See “Section 172(1) statement” on pages 23-26, 
“Environment and society” on pages 84-90, “Our people” 
on pages 99-101 and “Governance” on pages 104-171. 
For more detailed discussions around our context 
and stakeholders.
See “Strategy and outlook” on page 19 for 
more detailed discussion around our purpose.
See “Our people” on pages 99-101 for more 
detailed discussion around our core values.
Our Context
The rising standard of living of a growing global population is likely 
to continue to drive demand for energy, including oil and gas, for 
years to come. At the same time, technological changes and the 
need to tackle climate change mean there is a transition under 
way to a lower-carbon, multi-source energy system with 
increasing customer choice.
Our stakeholders include:
Our investor community
Our customers
Our employees/pensioners
Our strategic partners/suppliers
Communities
Governments/NGOs/regulators
Our Purpose
We power progress 
together by providing more 
and cleaner energy solutions.
Our Core Values
Honesty
Integrity
Respect for people
The Shell General Business Principles, Code of Conduct, and Code 
of Ethics help everyone at Shell act in line with these values and 
comply with relevant laws and regulations. We also strive to build 
and maintain a diverse and inclusive culture within our company.
Strategic Report

13
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
See “Strategy and outlook” on page 20 for more 
detailed discussion around our strategic ambitions.
See “Strategy and outlook” 
on page 21  for more 
detailed discussion around 
our strategic themes.
Our strategic ambitions
Our strategy by theme
to thrive in the energy transition by responding to 
society’s desire for more and cleaner, convenient 
and competitive energy;
to provide a world-class investment case. This involves growing 
organic free cash flow and increasing returns, all built upon a 
strong financial framework and resilient portfolio; and
to sustain a strong societal licence to operate and make 
a positive contribution to society through our activities.
Our strategy is to strengthen our position as a leading 
energy company by providing oil, gas and low-carbon 
energy as the world’s energy system transforms. Safety and 
social responsibility are fundamental to our business approach.
Thrive in
the energy
transition
World-class
investment
case
Strong
licence to
operate
Core Upstream themes
Deep Water
Shales
Conventional 
Oil and Gas
Leading Transition themes
Integrated Gas
Oil Products
Chemicals
Emerging Power theme
Power
Strategic Report

14
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SHELL STORY: WHAT WE DO
We aim to meet the world’s growing need for more and 
cleaner energy solutions in ways that are economically, 
environmentally and socially responsible.
Our Inputs [A] Our Business 
Model
We seek to create shareholder value by:
 ■ exploring for crude oil and natural 
gas worldwide;
 ■ developing new crude oil and natural 
gas supplies from major fields and 
extracting bitumen from oil sands;
 ■ cooling natural gas to produce 
liquefied natural gas (LNG) and 
converting gas to liquids (GTL);
 ■ supplying and trading oil, gas and 
other energy-related products, such 
as electricity and carbon-emissions 
rights; and
 ■ having a portfolio of refineries and 
chemical plants producing a wide range 
of products including gasoline, diesel, 
aviation and marine fuel, lubricants 
and petrochemicals.
The integration of our businesses is one 
of our competitive advantages, allowing 
optimisations across our global portfolio.
Financial
291,142
Average capital employed 
($ million) 
23,919
Cash capital expenditure ($ million) 
  R ead more in “Performance 
indicators” on pages 42-44 
and “Non-GAAP measures 
reconciliations” on pages 279-280.
Operations
90.8%
Refinery and chemical 
plant availability
90%
Project delivery on schedule 
99%
Project delivery on budget 
  R ead more in “Performance 
indicators” on pages 42-44.
Innovation 
962
Investments in research 
and development ($ million) 
9,449
Patents [B]
  R ead more in “Technology and 
Innovation” on page 18.
Human capital
83,000
Employees [B]
373,000 
Training days 
  R ead more in “Our people” 
on pages 99-101 .
Relationships
Customers
Joint arrangements
Governments relations 
Suppliers
>70
Operating countries [B] 
  R ead more in “Section 172(1) 
statement” on pages 23-26, 
“Environment and society” on 
pages 84-90 and “Governance” 
on pages 104-171 .
Natural resources
11,096
Proved oil and gas reserves 
(million boe) [B]
1,338
Oil and gas production available  
for sale (million boe)
192
Fresh water withdrawn  
(million cubic metres)
  R ead more in “Oil and gas information” 
on pages 61-69 and “Environment 
and society” on pages 84-90.
[A] I n 2019 except stated otherwise.    [ B]  A t 31.12.2019.
See page 16 for more 
detailed discussion around 
our Business Model.
Strategic Report

15
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Our Outcome and Impact [A]
Strong licence to operate
Environmental impacts
70
Operational spills 
of more than 100kg
0.2
Weight of operational spills 
(in ‘000 tonnes)
  R ead more in “Environment and society” on pages 84-90. 
Trust and Transparency
47.5
Brand value ($ billion) [C] 
1,686
Shell Global Helpline 
(reports to the helpline)
Publication of the first Shell Tax Contribution Report
  R ead more in “Corporate” on page 79 and “Our people” 
on pages 99-101 .
Health, Safety and Security
0.9
Total recordable case 
frequency (injuries per 
million working hours)
130
Operational Tier 1 and 2 
process safety events
  R ead more in “Environment and society” on pages 84-90.
Contribution to countries of operation
61.3
Taxes paid and 
collected ($ billion)
44.9
Total spend on goods 
and services ($ billion)
  R ead more in “Environment and society” on pages 84-90.
Our people
26.4%
Women in senior 
leadership positions [B]
78
Average employee 
engagement score (points)
  R ead more in “Our people” on pages 99-101.
Thriving in the energy transition
Energy transition and climate change
78
Net Carbon Footprint 
(grams of CO2 equivalent 
per megajoule)
70
Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions (million tonnes of 
CO
2 equivalent)
  R ead more in “Climate change and energy transition” on pages 91-98.
World-class investment case
Financial performance
6.7%
Return on average capital 
employed (ROACE)
25,386
Shareholder distribution 
($ million)
  R ead more in “Performance indicators” on pages 42-44 and 
“Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” on pages 279-280.
Resilience of business model
26,399
Free cash flow ($ million)  
29.3%
Gearing [B]
  R ead more in “Performance indicators” on pages 42-44 
and “Liquidity and capital resources” on pages 80-83.
[A] I n 2019 except stated otherwise.   [ B]  A t 31.12.2019.   [ C]  S ource: Brand Finance Global 500 2020 Report.
Shell Catalysts & Technologies staff in Port Allen, Louisiana, USA.
Strategic Report

1
Exploration
1. Exploring for oil and gas 
onshore and offshore
Development and extraction
2. Developing onshore and offshore ﬁelds
3. Producing conventional, deep-water 
and shale oil and gas
4. Capturing carbon dioxide and storing 
it safely underground
5. Extracting bitumen
Manufacturing and
energy production
6. Upgrading bitumen
7. Reﬁning oil into fuels and 
lubricants
8. Producing gas-to-liquids
(GTL) products
9. Producing petrochemicals
10. Producing biofuels
11. Generating renewable power
12. Producing liqueﬁed natural
 gas (LNG)
Transport and trading
13. Shipping gas to where it is needed
14. Shipping oil to where it is needed
15. Trading oil and gas
16. Supply and distribution of LNG 
 for transport applications
17. Regasifying LNG
18. Trading power
Sales and marketing
19. Supplying domestic electricity
20. Supplying products to businesses, including gas
 for cooking, heating and electrical power
21. Progressing electric vehicle and hydrogen
 refuelling infrastructure
22. Providing mobility solutions for customers,
 including fuels and lubricants
23. Supplying aviation fuel
Technical and business services
24. Researching and developing
 new technology solutions
25. Managing the delivery of
 major projects
26. Providing technical and
 supporting services
2
3
4
5
7
6
24
12
13 8
14
9
10
15
16
17
25
26
18
19
11
20 21
22 23
16
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SHELL STORY: WHAT WE DO continued
OUR BUSINESS MODEL 
EXPLAINED
Business activities
Strategic Report

17
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Organisation
We describe below how our activities are organised. Integrated Gas, 
Upstream and Downstream focus on our seven strategic themes (see “Strategy 
and outlook” on page 21). Our Projects & Technology organisation manages 
the delivery of Shell’s major projects and drives research and innovation to 
develop new technology solutions.
  I ntegrated Gas 
(including New Energies)
This organisation covers two strategic themes: Integrated Gas, 
which is a Leading Transition theme; and New Energies, which 
includes the Emerging Power theme.
Integrated Gas manages LNG activities and the conversion of natural 
gas into GTL fuels and other products. It includes natural gas exploration 
and extraction, and the operation of upstream and midstream 
infrastructure necessary to deliver gas to market. It markets and trades 
natural gas, LNG, electricity and carbon-emission rights and also markets 
and sells LNG as a fuel for heavy-duty vehicles and marine vessels.
In New Energies, we are exploring emerging opportunities and 
investing in those where we believe sufficient commercial value is 
available. We focus on new fuels for transport, such as advanced 
biofuels, hydrogen and charging for battery-electric vehicles; and 
power, including from natural gas and low-carbon sources such 
as wind and solar.
  Upstream
Our Upstream organisation covers the core Upstream themes: 
Conventional Oil and Gas, Deep Water and Shales.
It manages the exploration for and extraction of crude oil, natural gas 
and natural gas liquids. It also markets and transports oil and gas, 
and operates infrastructure necessary to deliver them to market.
  Downstream
Our Downstream organisation comprises two strategic themes: Oil 
Products and Chemicals, both of which are Leading Transition themes.
It manages different Oil Products and Chemicals activities as part of 
an integrated value chain, that trades and refines crude oil, and other 
feedstocks into a range of products which are moved and marketed 
around the world for domestic, industrial and transport use. The 
products we sell include gasoline, diesel, heating oil, aviation fuel, 
marine fuel, biofuel, lubricants, bitumen and sulphur. We also 
produce and sell petrochemicals for industrial use worldwide. 
Our Downstream organisation also manages Oil Sands activities 
(the extraction of bitumen from mined oil sands and its conversion 
into synthetic crude oil).
  P rojects & Technology
Our Projects & Technology organisation manages the delivery of 
our major projects and drives research and innovation to develop new 
technology solutions. It provides technical services and technology 
capability for our Integrated Gas, Upstream and Downstream 
activities. It is also responsible for providing functional leadership 
across Shell in the areas of safety and environment, contracting and 
procurement, wells activities and greenhouse gas management.
Our future hydrocarbon production depends on the delivery of 
large and integrated projects (see “Risk factors” on pages 27-36). 
Systematic management of life-cycle technical and non-technical risks 
is in place for each opportunity, with assurance and control activities 
embedded throughout the project life cycle. We focus on the 
cost-effective delivery of projects through commercial agreements, 
supply-chain management, and construction and engineering 
productivity through effective planning and simplification of delivery 
processes. Development of our employees’ project management 
competencies is underpinned by project principles, standards and 
processes. A dedicated competence framework, training, standards 
and processes exist for various technical disciplines. We also 
provide governance support for our non-Shell-operated 
ventures or projects.
Painting Shell’s logo, the Pecten.
Strategic Report

18
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SHELL STORY: WHAT WE DO continued
Segmental Reporting
Our reporting segments are Integrated Gas, Upstream, Downstream and Corporate. Upstream combines the operating segments 
Upstream (managed by our Upstream organisation) and Oil Sands (managed by our Downstream organisation), which have similar 
economic characteristics. Integrated Gas, Upstream and Downstream include their respective elements of our Projects & Technology 
organisation. The Corporate segment comprises our holdings and treasury organisation, self-insurance activities, and headquarters 
and central functions. See Note 4 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on pages 206-208.
With effect from 2020, our reporting segments were amended with the change in the way the CEO reviews and assesses performance 
of the group and consist of Integrated Gas, Upstream, Oil Products, Chemicals and Corporate.
Technology and Innovation
Revenue by business segment  
(including inter-segment sales)
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Integrated Gas
Third parties 41,322 43,764 32,674
Inter-segment 4,280 5,031 4,096
Total 45,602 48,795 36,770
Upstream
Third parties 9,965 9,892 7, 7 2 3
Inter-segment 36,448 37, 8 41 32,469
Total 46,413 47, 73 3 40,192
Downstream
Third parties 293,545 334,680 264,731
Inter-segment 1,132 917 1,090
Total 294,677 335,597 265,821
Corporate
Third parties 45 43 51
Total 45 43 51
Revenue by geographical area 
(excluding inter-segment sales)
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Europe 98,455 118,960 100,609
Asia, Oceania, Africa 139,916 153,716 114,683
USA 83,212 89,876 66,854
Other Americas 23,294 25,827 23,033
Total 344,877 388,379 305,179
Technology and innovation are essential to our efforts to meet the 
world’s energy needs in a competitive way. If we do not develop 
the right technology, do not have access to it or do not deploy it 
effectively, this could have a material adverse effect on the delivery 
of our strategy and our licence to operate (see “risk factors” on pages 
27-36). We continuously look for technologies and innovations of 
potential relevance to our business. Our Chief Technology Officer 
oversees the development and deployment of new and differentiating 
technologies and innovations across Shell, seeking to align business 
and technology requirements throughout our technology 
maturation process.
In 2019, research and development expenses were $962 million, 
compared with $986 million in 2018, and $922 million in 2017 . Our 
main technology centres are in India, the Netherlands and the USA, 
with other centres in Brazil, China, Germany, Oman, and Qatar. A 
strong patent portfolio underlies the technology that we employ in 
our various businesses. In total, we have around 9,449 granted 
patents and pending patent applications.
Strategic Report

19
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK
 “We know the energy 
transition is unfolding, and 
we must be part of it if we 
are to survive as a business. 
Those companies that do 
not stay in step with society 
will be left behind.”
BEN VAN BEURDEN
Chief Executive Officer
OUR STRATEGY
Shell’s purpose is to power progress 
together by providing more and 
cleaner energy solutions.
Our strategy is to strengthen our position as a leading energy company 
by providing oil, gas and low-carbon energy products and services as the 
world’s energy system transforms. Safety and social responsibility are 
fundamental to our business approach. Shell will only succeed by working 
collaboratively with customers, governments, business partners, investors 
and other stakeholders. 
Our strategy is founded on our outlook for the energy sector and the 
chance to grasp the opportunities arising from the substantial changes 
in the world around us. The rising standard of living of a growing global 
population is likely to continue to drive demand for energy for years to 
come. The world will need to find a way to meet this growing demand, 
while transitioning to a lower-carbon energy system to counter climate 
change. While liquid and gaseous fuels, including biofuels and hydrogen, 
will continue to be an important part of the energy mix, over time 
electricity needs to play a bigger part in the world if it is to meet the 
goals of the Paris Agreement. Technological advances and the need 
to tackle climate change mean there is a transition under way to a 
lower-carbon, multi-source energy system with increasing customer 
choice. We recognise that the pace and the path forward are 
uncertain and so require agile decision-making.
The field of the future: One of Shell’s iShale® well pads is fully solar-powered, 
and able to run for 14 days with no sun. Permian Basin, USA.
FPSO P68, Offshore Brazil. Photo from Petrobras.
Strategic Report

20
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Our strategic ambitions
Against this backdrop, we have the following strategic ambitions 
to guide us in pursuing our purpose:
The execution of our strategy is founded on becoming a more 
customer-centric and simpler, more streamlined organisation, 
focused on growing returns and organic free cash flow. By investing in 
competitive projects, delivering increases in cash flow from operations, 
and driving down costs, we are continually reshaping our portfolio 
to become a more resilient and focused company.
Our ability to achieve our strategic ambitions depends on how we 
respond to competitive forces. We continually assess the external 
environment – the markets and the underlying economic, political, 
social and environmental drivers that shape them – to evaluate 
changes in competitive forces and business models. We use multiple 
future scenarios to assess the resilience of our strategy. We regularly 
review the markets we operate in, assessing our competitive position 
by analysing trends and uncertainties, and the strengths and 
weaknesses of our traditional and non-traditional competitors. 
We maintain business strategies and plans that focus on actions 
and capabilities to create and sustain competitive advantage. 
We maintain a risk management framework that regularly assesses 
our response to, and risk appetite for, identified risk factors.
 S ee “Risk factors” on pages 27-36.
Our Executive Directors’ remuneration is linked to the successful 
delivery of our strategy, based on performance indicators that are 
aligned with shareholder interests. Long-term incentives form the 
majority of the Executive Directors’ remuneration for above-target 
performance. In 2019, the Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) included 
cash generation, capital discipline, value created for shareholders, 
and a measure focused on Shell’s strategic ambition to thrive in 
the energy transition.
 S ee the “Directors’ Remuneration Report” on pages 135-138.
to thrive in the energy transition by responding to society’s desire 
for more and cleaner, convenient and competitive energy;
to provide a world-class investment case. This involves growing 
organic free cash flow and increasing returns, all built upon a 
strong financial framework and resilient portfolio; and
to sustain a strong societal licence to operate and make a positive 
contribution to society through our activities.
STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK continued
Thrive in
the energy
transition
World-class
investment
case
Strong
licence to
operate
Strategic Report

21
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Our strategic themes
As part of our strategy, we divide our portfolio into strategic 
themes, each with distinctive capabilities, growth strategies 
and risk management.
Organising our businesses into seven strategic themes has helped us focus our investment priorities and drive delivery of our 
long-term ambitions. Due to the evolution of our businesses and the external environment, in 2019 we refreshed the way we 
group the strategic themes to better communicate our portfolio strategy and long-term outlook:
Core Upstream themes
Core Upstream themes are central 
to Shell and we will sustain their 
strong cash generation through 
the coming decades.
Deep Water
 ■ Leading portfolio, strong 
growth funnel
 ■ Sustained high-margin 
production
Shales
 ■ Growing production 
in high-margin basins
 ■ Competitive delivery
Conventional 
Oil and Gas
 ■ High-graded portfolio 
with longevity
 ■ Growth potential in deep 
resource base
Leading Transition themes
Leading transition themes are businesses 
where we already have a leading 
position in the industry and are critical 
for us to capitalise on the energy 
transition to a lower-carbon future.
Integrated Gas
 ■ Extend market leadership 
 ■ Unique portfolio 
optimisation capability 
Oil Products
 ■ Most successful mobility 
retailer, #1 in lubricants
 ■ Competitive/high-quality 
refining backbone
Chemicals
 ■ Strong demand growth 
despite growing recycling
 ■ Focus on base, derivative 
and performance chemicals
Emerging Power theme
Emerging Power theme is focused on 
creating business models to support 
the evolving customer demands for more 
electricity through the energy transition 
to a lower-carbon future. Shell aims to 
become an integrated power player 
and grow, over time, a significant 
new business.
Power
 ■ New sources of 
value emerging 
 ■ Returns drive pace 
of scaling up
World-class asset 
operatorship +
Trading optimisation 
through integration +
Leverage customer 
proximity and intimacy
Strategic Report

22
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK continued
Aerial view of road and Glengarry forest, Scotland, UK.
Forestry and Land Scotland is working with Shell UK to preserve and extend native woodland. 
OUTLOOK FOR 2020 
AND BEYOND
We continually seek to improve our operating performance and maximise 
sustainable organic free cash flow, with an emphasis on health, safety, security, 
environment and asset performance, as well as our ethics and compliance principles. 
To do this, we are committed to attracting, developing and retaining a diverse, 
talented and motivated workforce.
We launched our $25 billion share buyback programme in 2018, and we 
have completed about $15 billion of buybacks as of February 20, 2020. 
Our intention to complete the $25 billion share buyback programme 
remains unchanged, but the pace remains subject to macro conditions 
and further debt reduction.
Our cash capital expenditure is expected to be at the lower end of 
the $24 billion to $29 billion range in 2020. Following the successful 
delivery of our $30 billion divestment programme during 2016-18, 
divestments are expected to amount to more than $10 billion over 
the 2019-2020 period.
We fully support the Paris Agreement’s goal to keep the rise in global 
average temperature this century to well below two degrees Celsius 
above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature 
increase even further to 1.5 degrees Celsius. We have set a long-term 
ambition to reduce the Net Carbon Footprint of our energy products, 
measured in grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per megajoule 
consumed, by around 20% by 2035 and by around 50% by 2050, 
in pace with society. While our ambition is long term, we believe we 
must act today if we are to help society progress more quickly. In early 
2019 we set an unconditional three-year target to reduce our Net Carbon 
Footprint by 2% to 3% compared to 2016. For the 2020 award, the target 
range is a 3-4% reduction in our Net Carbon Footprint against the 2016 
baseline. It is intended that this target setting will be done annually, with 
each year’s target covering either a three-year or five-year period.
  Fu rther details are in the “Climate Change  
and Energy Transition” on pages 91-98.
Since the start of 2020 there has been a developing outbreak of the 
COVID-19 (coronavirus). To date, we have not seen a material impact on 
our operations. As a result of COVID-19, we have seen macro-economic 
uncertainty with regards to prices and demand for oil, gas and products. 
Furthermore, recent global developments and uncertainty in oil supply in 
March have caused further volatility in commodity markets. The scale and 
duration of these developments remain uncertain but could impact our 
earnings, cash flow and financial condition.
The statements in this “Strategy and outlook” section, including those 
related to our growth strategies and our expected or potential future cash 
flow from operations, organic free cash flow, share buybacks, capital 
investment, divestments, production and Net Carbon Footprint are based 
on management’s current expectations and certain material assumptions 
and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual 
results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed 
or implied herein.
  S ee “About this Report” on pages 2-3  
and “Risk factors” on pages 27-36.
Strategic Report

23
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SECTION 172(1) STATEMENT
The revised UK Corporate Governance Code (‘2018 Code’) was 
published in July 2018 and applies to accounting periods beginning on 
or after January 1, 2019. The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) 
Regulations 2018 (‘2018 MRR’) require Directors to explain how they 
considered the interests of key stakeholders and the broader matters set 
out in section 172(1) (A) to (F) of the Companies Act 2006 (‘S172’) when 
performing their duty to promote the success of the Company under S172. 
This includes considering the interest of other stakeholders which will have 
an impact on the long-term success of the company. The Board welcomes 
the direction of the UK Financial Reporting Council (the ‘FRC’). This S172 
statement, which is reported for the first time, explains how Shell Directors: 
 ■ have engaged with employees, suppliers, customers and others; and
 ■ have had regard to employee interests, the need to foster the 
company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and other, 
and the effect of that regards, including on the principal decisions 
taken by the company during the financial year. 
The S172 statement focuses on matters of strategic importance to Shell, 
and the level of information disclosed is consistent with the size and the 
complexity of the business. 
GENERAL CONFIRMATION OF DIRECTORS’ DUTIES
Shell’s Board has a clear framework for determining the matters within 
its remit and has approved Terms of Reference for the matters delegated 
to its Committees. Certain financial and strategic thresholds have been 
determined to identify matters requiring Board consideration and 
approval. The Manual of Authority sets out the delegation and 
approval process across the broader business. More information on 
Shell’s Controls and Procedures can be found within the Other regulatory 
and statutory information page 168.
When making decisions, each Director ensures that he/she acts in the way 
he/she considers, in good faith, would most likely promote the Company’s 
success for the benefit of its members as a whole, and in doing so have 
regard (among other matters) to:
S172(1) (A) “THE LIKELY CONSEQUENCES 
OF ANY DECISION IN THE LONG TERM”
The Directors understand the business and the evolving environment in 
which we operate, including the challenges of navigating through the 
energy transition. Based on Shell’s purpose to power progress together 
by providing more and cleaner energy solutions, the strategy set by the 
Board is intended to strengthen our position as a leading energy company 
by providing oil, gas and low-carbon energy products and services as 
the world’s energy system transforms while keeping safety and social 
responsibility fundamental to our business approach. In 2019, to help 
achieve all three strategic ambitions, the Board refreshed our strategy 
to further focus on developing Shell’s Power business. However, while 
investing for the future, the Board also recognise we must meet today’s 
energy demand. 
As outlined in Our Context in the Shell Story pages 12-18, the rising 
standard of living of a growing global population is likely to continue to 
drive demand for energy, including oil and gas, for years to come. At the 
same time, technological changes and the need to tackle climate change 
mean there is a transition under way to a lower-carbon, multi-source 
energy system with increasing customer choice. The three strategic 
ambitions: thrive in the energy transition, world-class investment case and 
strong licence to operate pages 19-21 have been set in that context with 
the objective to increase long-term value for shareholders recognising that 
the long-term success of our business is dependent on our stakeholders 
and the external impact of our business activities on society.
The Directors recognise how our operations are viewed by different parts 
of society and that some decisions they take today may not align with all 
stakeholder interests. Given the complexity of the energy transition, the 
Directors have taken the decisions they believe best support Shell’s three 
strategic ambitions. 
S172(1) (B) “THE INTERESTS OF THE 
COMPANY’S EMPLOYEES”
The Directors recognise that Shell employees are fundamental and core 
to our business and delivery of our strategic ambitions. The success of 
our business depends on attracting, retaining and motivating employees. 
From ensuring that we remain a responsible employer, from pay and 
benefits to our health, safety and workplace environment, the Directors 
factor the implications of decisions on employees and the wider 
workforce, where relevant and feasible. The Directors recognise 
that our pensioners, though no longer employees, also remain 
important stakeholders.
  M ore information on this can be found within our report on 
workforce engagement on page 124.
S172(1) (C) “THE NEED TO FOSTER THE COMPANY’S 
BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS WITH SUPPLIERS, 
CUSTOMERS AND OTHERS”
Delivering our strategy requires strong mutually beneficial relationships 
with suppliers, customers, governments, national oil companies and 
joint-venture partners. Shell seeks the promotion and application of 
certain general principles in such relationships. The ability to promote 
these principles effectively is an important factor in the decision to enter 
into or remain in such relationships and this alongside other standards are 
described in The Shell General Business Principles, which are reviewed 
and approved by the Board periodically. The Board also reviews and 
approves Shell’s approach to suppliers which is set out in the Shell 
Supplier Principles. The businesses continuously assess the priorities 
related to customers and those with whom we do business, and the 
Board engages with the businesses on these topics, for example, within 
the context of business strategy updates and investment proposals. 
Moreover, the Directors receive information updates on a variety of topics 
that indicate and inform how these stakeholders have been engaged. 
These range from information provided from the Projects & Technology 
function (on suppliers and joint-venture partners related to items such as 
project updates and supplier contract management topics) to information 
provided by the businesses (on customers and joint-venture partners 
related to, for example, business strategies, projects and investment 
or divestment proposals).
S172(1) (D) “THE IMPACT OF THE COMPANY’S 
OPERATIONS ON THE COMMUNITY AND THE 
ENVIRONMENT”
This aspect is inherent in our strategic ambitions, most notably on our 
ambitions to thrive through the energy transition and to sustain a strong 
societal licence to operate. As such, the Board receives information on 
these topics to both provide relevant information for specific Board 
decisions (e.g. those related to specific strategic initiatives such as the Net 
Carbon Footprint ambition, our nature-based solutions programme and 
projects, investment or divestment proposals, business strategy reviews 
and country entry considerations) and to provide ongoing overviews at 
the Shell group level (e.g., regular Safety & Environment Performance 
Updates, reports from the Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer and Chief 
Internal Auditor). In 2019, certain Board Committees and Non-executive 
Directors conducted site visits of various Shell operations and overseas 
offices and held external stakeholder engagements, where feasible. 
More information on this can be found in Understanding and engaging 
with our stakeholders page 122.
Strategic Report

24
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SECTION 172(1) STATEMENT continued
S172(1) (E) “THE DESIRABILITY OF THE COMPANY 
MAINTAINING A REPUTATION FOR HIGH STANDARDS 
OF BUSINESS CONDUCT”
Shell aims to meet the world’s growing need for more and cleaner energy 
solutions in ways which are economically, environmentally and socially 
responsible. The Board periodically reviews and approves clear 
frameworks, such as The Shell General Business Principles, Shell’s Code of 
Conduct, specific Ethics & Compliance manuals, and its Modern Slavery 
Statements, to ensure that its high standards are maintained both within 
Shell businesses and the business relationships we maintain. This, 
complemented by the ways the Board is informed and monitors 
compliance with relevant governance standards help assure its decisions 
are taken and that Shell companies act in ways that promote high 
standards of business conduct.
S172(1) (F) “THE NEED TO ACT FAIRLY AS BETWEEN 
MEMBERS OF THE COMPANY”
After weighing up all relevant factors, the Directors consider which 
course of action best enables delivery of our strategy through the 
long-term, taking into consideration the impact on stakeholders. In 
doing so, our Directors act fairly as between the Company’s members 
but are not required to balance the Company’s interest with those of 
other stakeholders, and this can sometimes mean that certain 
stakeholder interests may not be fully aligned.
CULTURE
The Board recognises that it has an important role in assessing 
and monitoring that our desired culture is embedded in the values, 
attitudes and behaviours we demonstrate, including in our activities and 
stakeholder relationships. The Board has established honesty, integrity 
and respect for people as Shell’s core values. The General Business 
Principles, Code of Conduct, and Code of Ethics help everyone at 
Shell act in line with these values and comply with relevant laws and 
regulations. The Shell Commitment and Policy on Health, Safety, Security, 
Environment & Social Performance applies across Shell and is designed 
to help protect people and the environment. We relentlessly pursue 
Goal Zero, our safety goal to achieve no harm and no leaks across all 
our operations. We also strive to maintain a diverse and inclusive culture.
The Board considers the Shell People Survey to be one of its principal tools 
to measure employee engagement, motivation, affiliation and commitment 
to Shell. It provides insights into employee views and has a consistently 
high response rate. The Board also utilises this engagement to understand 
how survey outcomes are being leveraged to strengthen Shell culture 
and values. 
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (INCLUDING EMPLOYEE 
ENGAGEMENT)
The Board recognises the important role Shell has to play in society and is 
deeply committed to public collaboration and stakeholder engagement. 
This commitment is at the heart of Shell’s strategic ambitions. The Board 
strongly believes that Shell will only succeed by working with customers, 
governments, business partners, investors and other stakeholders. 
Working together is critical, particularly at a time when society, including 
businesses, governments and consumers, faces issues as complex and 
challenging as climate change. 
We continue to build on our long track record of working with others, 
such as investors, industry and trade groups, universities, governments, 
NGOs and in some instances our competitors through our joint-venture 
operations or industry bodies. We believe that working together and 
sharing knowledge and experience with others offers us greater insight 
into our business. We also appreciate our long-term relationships with 
our investors and acknowledge the positive impact of ongoing 
engagement and dialogue. 
To support strengthening the Board’s knowledge of the significant levels 
of engagement undertaken by the broader business, guidance on 
information, proposals or discussion items provided to the Board was 
updated in 2019 to further promote and focus considerations of the views, 
interests and concerns of our stakeholders and how these were considered 
by Management. Board minutes have also reflected key points on 
stakeholder considerations, where appropriate. Further, the Terms of 
Reference for our Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee 
were updated to include, within the Committee’s remit, the review and 
consideration of external stakeholder perspectives and how major issues 
of public concern that could affect the Shell group’s reputation and licence 
to operate were, or are, being addressed. 
The Board also engaged with certain stakeholders directly, to understand 
their views. More on this engagement is provided in the Understanding 
and engaging with our stakeholders on page 122. 
Information on how the Directors have engaged with employees can 
be found on page 124 and in the Our people section on pages 99-101. 
Examples of how Directors have taken the interests of Shell employees 
into consideration and the consequent outcome on related decisions 
is incorporated in the table below. 
PRINCIPAL DECISIONS
In the table below, we outline some of the principal decisions made by the 
Board over the year, explain how the Directors have engaged with, or in 
relation to, the different key stakeholder groups and how stakeholder 
interests were considered over the course of decision-making. 
To remain concise, we have categorised our key stakeholders into six 
groups. Where appropriate, each group is considered to include both 
current and potential stakeholders.
 Investor Community
 
 Employees/Workforce/Pensioners
 Regulators/Governments/NGOs
 Communities
 Customers 
 Suppliers/Strategic Partners 
Principal decisions
We define principal decisions taken by the Board as those decisions 
in 2019 that are of a strategic nature and that are significant to any 
of our key stakeholder groups. As outlined in the FRC Guidance on 
the Strategic Report, we include decisions related to capital 
allocation and dividend policy.
How were stakeholders considered
We describe how regard was given to likely long-term consequences of 
the decision including how stakeholders were considered during the 
decision-making process.
What was the outcome
We describe which accommodations/ mitigations were made, if any, 
and how Directors have considered different interests and the factors 
taken into account.
Strategic Report

25
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Approval of Shell’s Operating Plan 2020-2022 (OP19) What was the outcome
The approval of OP19 followed an in-depth review by the Board of proposals on capital allocation, capital 
investment outlook, competitive outlook, operating expenses, return on average capital employed and 
shareholder distributions. This includes reviews in October 2019 as an advance engagement on OP19 
while it was under preparation, and in December 2019 for final approval.
How were stakeholders considered
OP19 discussions included a full review against Shell’s three strategic ambitions: thriving in the energy 
transition, world-class investment case, and strong societal licence to operate. The Directors and Executive 
Committee balanced the priorities in the operational plan versus the strategy by using feedback received 
as part of continuous engagement with investors, discussions with equity and debt market analysts and 
commitments made regarding share buybacks, gearing and organic free cash flow. 
The plan was discussed extensively and included commitment to continue investing in the energy transition, 
which is a reflection of the importance that communities and interest groups were likely to place on key 
societal contributions/efforts regarding carbon-neutral offerings for mobility customers, growth in 
Nature-Based Solutions, support for Net Carbon Footprint ambition reductions and published 
government plans related to the energy transition.
In the assessment, the interests of investors and capital markets received particular focus and featured 
heavily in many discussions, and potential differing interests of debt and equity investors was observed. 
This was balanced against the importance of the value placed on Shell by society (including communities, 
employees, customers, suppliers) for the services provided by the business and the way in which we 
conduct business. 
Information on employees and our organisational structure featured as part of OP19. The plan maintained 
the approach to salaries, benefits, health, worker welfare, focus on employee experience and training.
Metrics agreed within OP19 underpin the 2020 organisational scorecard, against which all employee 
bonuses are calculated. Both the Board and the Remuneration Committee discussed these metrics at 
length to ensure they are suitably stretching and motivating, support the right culture within the business 
and align to the strategic ambitions.
Following the review of the draft plan, the Board requested 
further information on specific matters such as capital 
allocation, new energies and organisational aspects, several 
of which included certain stakeholder groups. Responses were 
provided on these items and changes were incorporated 
into the plan where appropriate.
The early review of the plan identified weaker macroeconomic 
conditions and challenging outlooks. Although an unwelcome 
message for stakeholders, this was communicated to the 
market at the end of the third quarter and reiterated it in 
the fourth quarter results. 
The overall outcome of this decision is an operating plan that 
the Board believes underpins Shell’s strategic ambitions and 
has taken into account different stakeholder views, realising 
that not all stakeholder views can nor will completely align 
with OP19. 
While stakeholder opinion may differ on Shell’s approach, 
OP19 is based on the demand for products and services 
by society. OP19 supports the Company maintaining a 
reputation for high standards of business conduct, Health, 
Safety, Security and Environment and maintained the 
approach to employee remuneration and benefits to 
pensioners. OP19 seeks to reward our investors with 
returns and maintaining long-term financial strength 
to invest in more and cleaner forms of energy and meet 
the current and future needs of society.
Investing in new business and acquisitions What was the outcome
Over the course of the year, the Board discussed and approved several new opportunities and projects across 
the different segments. The Board focused on Power and discussed and approved the continued 
implementation of the Power Strategy. It made certain recommendations to Management and appraised 
potential investment opportunities which comprised wholly-owned acquisitions and joint-venture opportunities. 
The Board receives regular updates and maintains oversight of the operations of the New Energies business 
even though many of the investments in this area are below the threshold for Board decision.
How were stakeholders considered
The Board obtained a clearer perspective on the pace of local energy transitions, regulation, changing 
customer needs and technology. This enhanced awareness was used to evaluate the possible impact on 
stakeholders and risks to its reputation in relation to certain stakeholder groups.
Oil and Gas – During the year Shell has secured new opportunities in a number of regions, some of which 
were considered and approved by the Board. The Directors carefully reviewed new significant entries and 
risk and rewards of new projects. During these discussions, the Board was cognisant that some stakeholders 
may not agree with Shell’s strategy to continue to invest in oil and gas during the energy transition. 
Purchase of ERM – Although below the normal threshold of investments for Board approval, the 
discussion was the result of earlier Board requests to enhance its understanding of the New Energies 
investments, customer demand, the alignment with the Shell strategy and the Board’s commitments to its 
stakeholders including investors. During discussions, particular attention was paid to the alignment of 
assets owned by ERM with Shell’s overall long-term ambitions, and stakeholder views. The discussions and 
considerations for the purchase of this listed entity covered its business model and people, assets and 
synergies, fit with the Shell Power strategy and the ability to generate returns while playing a role in the 
transition to a lower-carbon future. The Board also reflected on the Shell brand and its ability to retain 
ERM customers under new ownership.
Eneco – The attempted purchase of Eneco is a clear example of the Board’s reflections on feedback 
received from equity and debt market analysts and its statements made regarding the share buybacks, 
gearing and organic free cash flow. Further, it reflects Shell’s desire to increase its operations in this area.
Significant engagement was undertaken as part of the bid preparation, which included understanding 
customer sentiment, government and local municipality opinion and the ability to retain Eneco employees 
following transfer of ownership in the event of a winning bid. The outcome of this engagement was 
provided to the Board. 
For both proposals, the Board considered the interests of investment partners and potential 
organisational cultural differences. Customer relationships, local regulatory knowledge and other 
stakeholder relationships including local community views were also discussed. The Board also discussed 
how the potential deal(s) could be received by investors and the equity analyst community. The Board 
was particularly cognisant that investors would want to understand how acquisitions would fit within the 
existing financial framework and the impact if any on: expected outturns, the share buyback programme, 
cashflow; and capital investment.
As a result of discussion and decisions in this area, the Board 
obtained insights on renewables growth, customers’ priorities 
(around price and interest in clean power), as well as 
information on anticipated market direction and regulatory 
frameworks. The Board also committed a large part of its 
annual strategy event and committed further time later in the 
years to enhancing its understanding of New Energies and the 
opportunities in Power through, for instance, site visits with 
companies, governments, regulators, academics and 
potential customers. (Read more on page 122) 
Oil and Gas – The Board recognises that societal views 
vary widely in this area. However, it must also bear in mind 
that global demand for energy is still growing. Although 
renewable resources will meet a growing share of the rising 
energy demand, Shell and other experts believe there 
continues to be a need for oil and gas for many years 
to come through the energy transition. The Directors 
also appreciate that it is this business that provides 
the capital to invest in the energy transition.
Purchase of ERM – Following discussion in the early part 
of the year, the Board was keen to better understand the 
New Energies’ investments, their alignment with the Power 
Strategy and the new opportunities being potentially pursued. 
It now receives summary information of smaller deals and 
clarifications on the strategic and business alignment of the 
larger deals. The Directors asked questions and shared their 
expertise when provided with these updates.
Eneco – The Eneco discussion covered many Board meetings, 
with questions coming from each discussion and further 
research and understanding provided back to the Board. As 
Management and the Board have been clear that they will 
only pursue ambitions in this area at the right cost, the bid 
from the Shell consortium was lower than that of its 
competitors and therefore unsuccessful. 
Strategic Report

26
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SECTION 172(1) STATEMENT continued
Divestments and exits from markets What was the outcome
Selected assets were divested in 2019. More information on these can be found further within the Strategic 
Report. An example divestment is the sale of the Martinez refinery based in California, which was fully 
completed in February 2020. 
How were stakeholders considered
Given the size of the Martinez asset, the sale was discussed by the Board. The divestment aligned with 
Shell’s strategy to reshape refining efforts towards a smaller, smarter refining portfolio focused on further 
integration with Shell Trading hubs, Chemicals, and Marketing. 
The Board considered how the Martinez divestment would be received by local communities and the 
potential reputational implications. Further, the Board observed that other retained businesses may feel 
at risk and more widely considered the potential impact on value chain cash generation.
The future prospects, environment liabilities and the impact on employees were considered by the 
Board and included expectations around employee retention by the new buyer. Agreements were put 
in place regarding certain employee benefits which would be met by Shell for a period of time following 
the divestment. 
Announcements and communications relating to divestments 
are drafted proactively. The stakeholder engagement plan 
included local government and communities. The plan 
focused on supporting community confidence in 
operations post-divestment.
Engagement related to employees was undertaken, and 
agreement was reached regarding certain Shell-paid benefits. 
Community concerns regarding Shell’s exit were addressed.
Shareholder Distributions What was the outcome
Every quarter, the Board assessed the continuation of the share buyback programme as well as the 
ongoing payment and rate of dividend per share payable to shareholders. 
How were stakeholders considered
A number of metrics underpinned each decision, including the BG intention statement regarding the 
equity issued in connection with the combination with the BG Group.
At the time of each decision, the Board received an update on investor views based on equity and debt 
market opinions, Executive Committee and Investor Relations engagements, Chair engagements and 
rating agency views. Along with the other investor meetings undertaken by the Board and outlined within 
the stakeholder engagement section of this report (see page 122), towards the end of the year, the Senior 
Independent Director undertook a number of engagements to discuss the proposed remuneration policy, 
this provided investors a further opportunity to share views on other matters.
In making decisions, the Board considered investor expectations, the BG intention statement regarding 
share buybacks, and the flexibility afforded by Operating Plans, which included known and anticipated 
organic free cash flow and were reflective of the actual and expected business performance at the time 
of the decisions. 
As the macroeconomic environment changed during the year, 
further considerations were given to differing stakeholder 
opinion and balanced against prior intention statements. 
In the later part of the year, as part of the paper requesting 
approval for the share buyback and dividend payment, the 
Board received potential market reaction from equity and 
debt holders on pacing options related to the share 
buyback in consideration of the prevailing macroeconomic 
environment, including lower oil and gas prices. At the third 
quarter results announcement, the Company communicated 
the potential impact of these conditions on the pace of the 
share buyback programme and gearing reduction.
Strategic Report

27
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
The risks discussed below could have a material adverse effect 
separately, or in combination, on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition. Accordingly, investors should carefully 
consider these risks.
Further background on each risk is set out in the relevant sections of 
this Report indicated by way of cross references under each risk factor.
The Board’s responsibility for identifying, evaluating and managing 
our significant risks is discussed in “Other Regulatory and Statutory 
Information” pages 168-171.
Risk description How this risk is managed
We are exposed to macroeconomic risks including fluctuating prices of crude 
oil, natural gas, oil products and chemicals
The prices of crude oil, natural gas, oil products and chemicals are affected by supply and demand, 
both globally and regionally. Furthermore, macroeconomic risks can affect demand for our products. 
Government actions may also affect the prices of crude oil, natural gas, oil products and chemicals. This 
could happen, for example, by promoting the sale of lower-carbon electric vehicles or even through the 
future prohibition of sales of new diesel or gasoline vehicles, such as the prohibition in the United Kingdom 
(UK) beginning in 2035. Prices for oil and gas can also move independently of each other. Factors that 
influence supply and demand include operational issues, natural disasters, weather, pandemics, such as 
the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak, political instability, conflicts, economic conditions and actions by 
major oil and gas producing countries. In a low oil and gas price environment, we would generate less 
revenue from our Upstream and Integrated Gas businesses, and, as a result, parts of those businesses 
could become less profitable, or could incur losses. Low oil and gas prices have also resulted and could 
continue to result in the debooking of proved oil or gas reserves, if they become uneconomic in this type 
of price environment. Prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices, or rising costs, have resulted and could 
continue to result in projects being delayed or cancelled. Assets have also been impaired in the past, and 
there could be impairments in the future. Low oil and gas prices could also affect our ability to maintain our 
long-term capital investment programme and dividend payments. Prolonged periods of low oil and gas 
prices could adversely affect the financial, fiscal, legal, political and social stability of countries that rely 
significantly on oil and gas revenue. In a high oil and gas price environment, we could experience sharp 
increases in costs, and, under some production-sharing contracts, our entitlement to proved reserves 
would be reduced. Higher prices could also reduce demand for our products, which could result in lower 
profitability, particularly in our Downstream business. Also, higher prices can result in more capacity 
being built which results in an oversupply of products that can negatively impact our LNG and Chemicals 
business. Accordingly, price fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash 
flows and financial condition.
 S ee “Market overview” on page 37.
We maintain a diversified portfolio to mitigate the impact 
of price volatility. We test the resilience of our projects and 
other opportunities against a range of crude oil, natural 
gas, oil product and chemical prices and costs. We 
prepare annual strategic and financial plans that consider 
and analyse the impact of different pricing scenarios on 
our businesses and company as a whole. These plans are 
appraised regularly throughout the year. We also aim to 
maintain a strong balance sheet to provide resilience 
against weak market prices.
Our ability to deliver competitive returns and pursue commercial opportunities 
depends in part on the accuracy of our price assumptions.
We use a range of oil and gas price assumptions, which we review on a periodic basis, to evaluate 
projects and commercial opportunities. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, it could have a 
material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
 S ee “Market overview” on page 39.
The range of commodity prices used in our project and 
portfolio evaluations is subject to a rigorous assessment 
of short, medium and long-term market drivers.
Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives depends on how we react to 
competitive forces.
We face competition in each of our businesses. We seek to differentiate our products; however, many 
of them are competing in commodity-type markets. Accordingly, failure to manage our costs as well as 
our operational performance could result in a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition. We also compete with state-owned oil and gas entities with access to vast financial 
resources. State-owned entities could be motivated by political or other factors in making their business 
decisions. Accordingly, when bidding on new leases or projects, we could find ourselves at a competitive 
disadvantage as these state-owned entities may not require a competitive return. If we are unable 
to obtain competitive returns when bidding on new leases or projects, it could have a material 
adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
 S ee “Strategy and outlook” on page 20.
We continually assess the external environment – the 
markets and the underlying economic, political, social 
and environmental drivers that shape them – to evaluate 
changes in competitive forces and business models. We 
use multiple future scenarios to assess the resilience of our 
strategy. We maintain business strategies and plans that 
focus on actions and capabilities to create and sustain 
competitive advantage.
RISK FACTORS
Strategic Report

28
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Risk description How this risk is managed
We seek to execute divestments in the pursuit of our strategy. We may 
not be able to successfully divest these assets in line with our strategy.
We may not be able to successfully divest assets at acceptable prices or within the timeline envisaged 
due to market conditions or credit risk. This would result in increased pressure on our cash position and 
potential impairments. In some cases, we have also retained certain liabilities following a divestment. Even 
in cases where we have not expressly retained certain liabilities, we may still be held liable for past acts, 
failures to act or liabilities that are different from those foreseen. We may also face liabilities if a purchaser 
fails to honour their commitments. Accordingly, if we are unable to divest assets at acceptable prices or 
within our envisaged timeframe, this could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows 
and financial condition
 S ee “Strategy and outlook” on page 22.
We carefully tailor our sales processes against buyers’ 
perceived expectations to deliver the most competitive 
outcomes. As a general principle, the sales processes are 
set up so that buyers will acquire the assets including all 
related liabilities. For some assets, Shell may agree to 
retain certain liabilities, which are closely monitored 
and for which appropriate provisions are made.
Our future hydrocarbon production depends on the delivery of large 
and integrated projects, as well as on our ability to replace proved 
oil and gas reserves.
We face numerous challenges in developing capital projects, especially those which are large and 
integrated. Challenges include: uncertain geology; frontier conditions; the existence and availability 
of necessary technology and engineering resources; the availability of skilled labour; the existence 
of transportation infrastructure; project delays; the expiration of licences; potential cost overruns; and 
technical, fiscal, regulatory, political and other conditions. These challenges are particularly relevant in 
certain developing and emerging-market countries, in frontier areas and in deep-water fields, such as 
off the coast of Brazil. We may fail to assess or manage these and other risks properly. Such potential 
obstacles could impair our delivery of these projects, our ability to fulfil the value potential determined at 
the time of the project investment approval, and/or our ability to fulfil related contractual commitments. 
These could lead to impairments and could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows 
and financial condition.
Future oil and gas production will depend on our access to new proved reserves through exploration, 
negotiations with governments and other owners of proved reserves and acquisitions, as well as on 
developing and applying new technologies and recovery processes to existing fields. Failure to replace 
proved reserves could result in lower future production, potentially having a material adverse effect on 
our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
Oil and gas production available for sale
Million boe [A]
2019 2018 2017
Shell subsidiaries 1,182 1,179 1,168
Shell share of joint ventures and associates 156 159 170
Total 1,338 1,338 1,338
[A] N atural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel. 
Proved developed and undeveloped oil and gas reserves [A][B] 
(at December 31)
Million boe [C]
2019 2018 2017
Shell subsidiaries 9,980 10,294 10,177
Shell share of joint ventures and associates 1,116 1,285 2,056
Total 11,096 11,578 12,233
Attributable to non-controlling interest in Shell subsidiaries 304 331 325
[A] W e manage our total proved reserves base without distinguishing between proved reserves from subsidiaries and 
those from joint ventures and associates.
[B]
 I
ncludes proved reserves associated with future production that will be consumed in operations.
[C]
 N
atural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalents using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.
 S ee “Shell Story” on page 17.
We continue to explore for, and mature, hydrocarbons 
across our Deep Water, Conventional Oil and Gas, 
Shales and Integrated Gas strategic themes. We use our 
subsurface, project and technical expertise and actively 
manage non-technical risks across a diversified portfolio 
of opportunities and projects. This is done with an 
integrated approach from basin choice through to 
development, where we employ a number of 
competitive techniques and benchmark our 
approach internally and externally. 
RISK FACTORS continued
Strategic Report

29
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Risk description How this risk is managed
The estimation of proved oil and gas reserves involves subjective judgements 
based on available information and the application of complex rules; therefore, 
subsequent downward adjustments are possible.
The estimation of proved oil and gas reserves involves subjective judgements and determinations based 
on available geological, technical, contractual and economic information. Estimates could change because 
of new information from production or drilling activities, or changes in economic factors, including changes 
in the price of oil or gas and changes in the regulatory policies of host governments, or other events. 
Estimates could also be altered by acquisitions and divestments, new discoveries, and extensions of existing 
fields and mines, as well as the application of improved recovery techniques. Published proved oil and gas 
reserves estimates could also be subject to correction due to errors in the application of published rules and 
changes in guidance. Downward adjustments could indicate lower future production volumes and could 
also lead to impairment of assets. This could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows 
and financial condition.
 S ee “Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited)” on page 239.
A central group of reserves experts undertake the 
primary assurance of the proved reserves bookings. 
A multidisciplinary committee reviews and endorses 
all major proved reserves bookings. All proved reserves 
bookings are reviewed by Shell’s Audit Committee, with 
final approval residing with Shell’s Executive Committee. 
The Internal Audit function also provides further assurance 
through audits of the control framework.
Rising climate change concerns have led and could lead to additional legal 
and/or regulatory measures which could result in project delays or cancellations, 
a decrease in demand for fossil fuels, potential litigation and additional 
compliance obligations.
In December 2015, 195 nations adopted the Paris Agreement, which we fully support. The Paris 
Agreement aims to limit increases in global temperatures to well below two degrees Celsius above 
pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase even further to 1.5 degrees 
Celsius. As a result, we expect continued and increased attention to climate change from all sectors of 
society. This attention has led, and we expect it to continue to lead, to additional regulations designed 
to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
We expect that a growing share of our GHG emissions will be subject to regulation, resulting in increased 
compliance costs and operational restrictions. If our GHG emissions rise alongside our ambitions to 
increase the scale of our business, our regulatory burden will increase proportionally. We also expect that 
GHG regulation, as well as emission reduction actions by customers, will continue to result in suppression 
of demand for fossil fuels, either through taxes, fees and/or incentives to promote the sale of lower-carbon 
electric vehicles or even through the future prohibition of sales of new diesel or gasoline vehicles, such as 
the prohibition in the United Kingdom (UK) beginning in 2035. This could result in lower revenue and, in 
the long term, potential impairment of certain assets.
In addition, the physical effects of climate change such as, but not limited to, rise in temperature, sea-level 
rise and fluctuations in water levels could adversely impact both our operations and supply chains. 
In some countries, governments, regulators, organisations and individuals have filed lawsuits seeking to 
hold fossil fuel companies liable for costs associated with climate change. While we believe these lawsuits 
to be without merit, losing any of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash 
flows and financial condition.
Additionally, some groups are pressuring certain investors to divest their investments in fossil fuel 
companies. If this were to continue, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our securities 
and our ability to access capital markets. Additionally, some groups are pressuring commercial 
and investment banks from financing fossil fuel companies. Furthermore, according to press reports, 
some financial institutions also appear to be considering limiting their exposure to certain fossil fuel 
projects. Accordingly, our ability to use financing for future projects may be adversely impacted. 
This could also adversely impact our potential partners’ ability to finance their portion of costs, 
either through equity or debt.
If we are unable to find economically viable, as well as publicly acceptable, solutions that reduce our 
GHG emissions and/or GHG intensity for new and existing projects or for the products we sell, we 
could experience additional costs or financial penalties, delayed or cancelled projects, and/or reduced 
production and reduced demand for hydrocarbons. This could have a material adverse effect on our 
earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
If we are unable to keep pace with society’s energy transition or we are unable to provide the desired 
low-GHG-emissions products needed to facilitate society’s energy transition, it could have a material 
adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
 S ee “Climate change and energy transition” on page 93.
The risk is actively monitored and reviewed by the 
Executive Committee. These regular reviews lead 
to actions designed to address all the different 
components of the risk. Overall the mitigation of the 
risk is addressed through our strategy to thrive in the 
energy transition. This is made up of three components:
 ■ reducing the GHG emissions intensity of our operations;
 ■ demonstrating resilience by adopting the guidance 
on disclosure by the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures; and
 ■ working towards our ambition to reduce the Net 
Carbon Footprint of the energy products we sell, in 
step with society’s drive to reduce GHG emissions.
Please refer to the risk factor “The nature of our operations 
exposes us, and the communities in which we work, to a 
wide range of health, safety, security and environment 
risks” for further explanation of how the physical effects 
of climate change on our operations and supply chains 
are managed.
Strategic Report

30
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
RISK FACTORS continued
Risk description How this risk is managed
Our business exposes us to risks of social instability, criminality, civil unrest, 
terrorism, piracy, cyber-disruption, acts of war and pandemic diseases, such as 
the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak, that could have a material adverse effect 
on our operations.
As seen in recent years, these risks can manifest themselves in the countries in which we operate and 
elsewhere. These risks affect people and assets. Potential risks include: acts of terrorism; acts of criminality 
including maritime piracy; cyber-espionage or disruptive cyber-attacks; conflicts including war, civil unrest 
and environmental and climate activism (including disruptions by non-governmental and political 
organisations); and pandemic diseases, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak. 
The above risks can threaten the safe operation of our facilities and transport of our products, cause 
disruption of operational activities, environmental harm, loss of life, injuries and impact the well-being 
of our people. 
These risks could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
 S ee “Environment and society” on page 84.
We seek to obtain the best possible information to enable 
us to assess threats and risks. We conduct detailed 
assessments for all our sites and activities, and implement 
appropriate measures to deter, detect and respond to 
security risks. Further mitigations include the strengthening 
of the security of sites, reduction of our exposure as 
appropriate, journey management, information risk 
management as well as crisis management and business 
continuity measures. We conduct training and awareness 
campaigns for staff and provide travel and health advice 
and 24/7 assistance while travelling. 
We operate in more than 70 countries that have differing degrees of 
political, legal and fiscal stability. This exposes us to a wide range of political 
developments that could result in changes to contractual terms, laws and 
regulations. In addition, we and our joint arrangements and associates 
face the risk of litigation and disputes worldwide.
Developments in politics, laws and regulations can and do affect our operations. Potential impacts include: 
forced divestment of assets; expropriation of property; cancellation or forced renegotiation of contract 
rights; additional taxes including windfall taxes, restrictions on deductions and retroactive tax claims; 
antitrust claims; changes to trade compliance regulations; price controls; local content requirements; 
foreign exchange controls; changes to environmental regulations; changes to regulatory interpretations 
and enforcement; and changes to disclosure requirements. Any of these, individually or in aggregate, 
could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
In addition to the above risks, the UK left the European Union (EU) on January 31, 2020 and enters into a 
period of transition which ends on December 31, 2020. The UK has stated that it will not extend the period 
of transition, and has confirmed plans to introduce import controls on EU goods at the border after the 
period of transition ends. Whatever the outcome of negotiations, we may experience delays in moving our 
products and employees between the UK and EU. Also, additional tariffs and taxes could impact the 
demand for some of our products. This potential delay and reduced demand for our products, combined 
with the potential adverse changes in macroeconomic conditions in both the EU and UK, could have a 
material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows.
From time to time, social and political factors play a role in unprecedented and unanticipated judicial 
outcomes that could adversely affect Shell. Non
-c
ompliance with policies and regulations could result in 
regulatory investigations, litigation and, ultimately, sanctions. Certain governments and regulatory bodies 
have, in Shell’s opinion, exceeded their constitutional authority by: attempting unilaterally to amend or 
cancel existing agreements or arrangements; failing to honour existing contractual commitments; and 
seeking to adjudicate disputes between private litigants. Additionally, certain governments have adopted 
laws and regulations that could potentially conflict with other countries’ laws and regulations, potentially 
subjecting us to both criminal and civil sanctions. Such developments and outcomes could have a material 
adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
 S ee “Other Regulatory and Statutory Information” on page 134.
We continuously monitor geopolitical developments and 
societal issues relevant to our interests. Our Legal and Tax 
functions are organised globally and support the business 
lines in ensuring compliance with local laws and fiscal 
regulations. Our Government Relations department 
engages with governments in countries where we operate 
to understand and influence local policies and to 
advocate Shell’s position on topics relevant to our 
industry. We are prepared to exit a country if we believe 
we can no longer operate in that country in accordance 
with our standards and applicable law, and we have 
done so in the past.
Strategic Report

31
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Risk description How this risk is managed
The nature of our operations exposes us, and the communities in which we work, 
to a wide range of health, safety, security and environment risks.
The health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) risks to which we, and the communities in which we 
work, are potentially exposed cover a wide spectrum, given the geographic range, operational diversity 
and technical complexity of our operations. These risks include the effects of natural disasters (including 
weather events), earthquakes, social unrest, personal health and safety lapses, and crime. If a major 
risk materialises, such as an explosion or hydrocarbon spill, this could result in injuries, loss of life, 
environmental harm, disruption of business activities, and loss or suspension of our licence to operate 
or ability to bid on mineral rights. Accordingly, this could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, 
cash flows and financial condition.
Our operations are subject to extensive HSSE regulatory requirements that often change and are likely 
to become more stringent over time. Governments could require operators to adjust their future production 
plans, as has been done in the Netherlands, affecting production and costs. We could incur significant 
additional costs in the future due to compliance with these requirements or as a result of violations of, 
or liabilities under, laws and regulations, such as fines, penalties, clean-up costs and third-party claims. 
Therefore, HSSE risks, should they materialise, could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, 
cash flows and financial condition.
 S ee “Environment and society” on page 84.
We have standards and a clear governance structure 
to help manage potential impacts. They are defined in 
our Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Social 
Performance (HSSE & SP) control framework and 
supporting guidance documents. The process safety 
and HSSE & SP assurance team provides assurance on 
the effectiveness of HSSE & SP controls to the Board. 
We also routinely prepare and practise our emergency 
response to potential incidents such as a spill or a fire.
A further erosion of the business and operating environment in Nigeria 
could have a material adverse effect on us.
In our Nigerian operations, we face various risks and adverse conditions. These include: security issues 
surrounding the safety of our people, host communities and operations; sabotage and theft; our ability 
to enforce existing contractual rights; litigation; limited infrastructure; potential legislation that could 
increase our taxes or costs of operations; the effect of lower oil and gas prices on the government 
budget; and regional instability created by militant activities. These risks or adverse conditions 
could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
 S ee “Upstream” on page 57.
We test the economic and operational resilience of our 
Nigerian projects against a wide range of assumptions 
and scenarios. We seek to proportionally share risks and 
funding commitments with joint-venture partners. We 
monitor the security situation, and liaise with host 
communities, governmental and non-governmental 
organisations to help promote peaceful and 
safe operations.
Production from the Groningen field in the Netherlands causes earthquakes 
that affect local communities.
Shell and ExxonMobil are 50:50 shareholders in Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (NAM). An 
important part of NAM’s gas production comes from the onshore Groningen gas field, in which EBN, a 
Dutch government entity, has a 40% interest and NAM a 60% interest. The gas field is in the process of 
being closed down due to gas-production-induced earthquakes. Some of these earthquakes have caused 
damage to houses and other structures in the region, resulting in complaints and lawsuits from the local 
community. The Government has announced their intent for an accelerated close-down to reduce 
Groningen production to zero by mid-2022. The exact date is still to be decided. While we are hopeful 
the closing down of the Groningen gas field will reduce the number and strength of earthquakes in the 
region, any additional earthquakes and lawsuits could have further adverse impacts on our earnings, 
cash flows and financial condition.
 S ee “Upstream” on page 54.
NAM is working with the Dutch government and other 
stakeholders to fulfil its obligations to residents of the area, 
which include compensation for damage caused by the 
earthquakes. Negotiations with the state are ongoing to 
determine how the accelerated close-down should be 
managed. Specific remediations within the agreed scope 
of responsibilities are planned. NAM’s joint-venture 
partners will review its financial robustness against 
different scenarios for Groningen’s liabilities and costs, 
with the objective that the venture can self-fund any 
additional expenses and claims.
Strategic Report

32
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
RISK FACTORS continued
Risk description How this risk is managed
Our future performance depends on the successful development and 
deployment of new technologies and new products.
Technology and innovation are essential to our efforts to meet the world’s energy demands in a 
competitive way. If we do not continue to develop or deploy technology and new products, or fully 
leverage our data effectively in a timely and cost-effective manner, there could be a material adverse 
effect on the delivery of our strategy and our licence to operate. We operate in environments where 
advanced technologies are utilised. In developing new technologies and new products, unknown or 
unforeseeable technological failures or environmental and health effects could harm our reputation and 
licence to operate or expose us to litigation or sanctions. The associated costs of new technology are 
sometimes underestimated, or delays occur. If we are unable to develop the right technology and products 
in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if we develop technologies and products that adversely impact 
the environment or health of individuals, there could be a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash 
flows and financial condition.
 S ee “Shell Story” on page 18.
Shell’s Technology organisation and the relevant lines 
of business work together to determine the content, scope 
and budget for developing new technology that supports 
our activities. The new technology is developed to ensure 
portfolio alignment with Shell’s strategic ambitions and 
deployment commitments. A significant proportion of 
Shell’s technology contributes to Shell’s New Energies 
portfolio and Net Carbon Footprint ambition, and is built 
around key relationships with leading academic research 
institutes and universities. We also benefit from working 
with start-ups. In our Shell GameChanger programme, 
we help companies to mature early-stage technologies. 
In our Shell Ventures scheme, we invest in and partner 
with start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises that 
are in the early stages of developing new technologies. 
We are exposed to treasury and trading risks, including liquidity risk, 
interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and credit risk. We are affected by 
the global macroeconomic environment as well as financial and commodity 
market conditions.
Our subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates are subject to differing economic and financial market 
conditions around the world. Political or economic instability affects such markets.
We use debt instruments, such as bonds and commercial paper, to raise significant amounts of capital. 
Should our access to debt markets become more difficult, the potential impact on our liquidity could have 
a material adverse effect on our operations. Our financing costs could also be affected by interest rate 
fluctuations or any credit rating deterioration.
We are exposed to changes in currency values and to exchange controls as a result of our substantial 
international operations. Our reporting currency is the US dollar. However, to a material extent, we hold 
assets and are exposed to liabilities in other currencies. While we undertake some foreign exchange 
hedging, we do not do so for all our activities. Furthermore, even where hedging is in place, it may not 
function as expected.
We are exposed to credit risk; our counterparties could fail or could be unable to meet their payment and/
or performance obligations under contractual arrangements. Although we do not have significant direct 
exposure to sovereign debt, it is possible that our partners and customers may have exposure which could 
impair their ability to meet their obligations. In addition, our pension plans invest in government bonds, 
and therefore could be affected by a sovereign debt downgrade or other default.
If any of the risks set out above materialise, they could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, 
cash flows and financial condition.
  S ee “Liquidity and capital resources” on page 80 and Note 19 to the 
“Consolidated Financial Statements” on pages 227-231.
We utilise various financial instruments for managing 
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate 
movements. Our treasury operations are highly 
centralised and seek to manage credit exposures 
associated with our substantial cash, foreign exchange 
and interest rate positions. Our portfolio of cash 
investments is diversified to avoid concentrating risk in 
any one instrument, country or counterparty. Other 
than in exceptional cases, the use of external derivative 
instruments is confined to specialist central treasury 
organisations that have appropriate skills, experience, 
supervision, control and reporting systems. Credit risk 
policies are in place to ensure that sales of products are 
made to customers with appropriate creditworthiness, 
and include detailed credit analysis and monitoring of 
customers against counterparty credit limits. Where 
appropriate, netting arrangements, credit insurance, 
prepayments and collateral are used to manage 
credit risk. We maintain a committed credit facility. 
Management believes it has access to sufficient 
debt funding sources (capital markets) and to 
undrawn committed borrowing facilities to 
meet foreseeable requirements.
Strategic Report

33
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Risk description How this risk is managed
We are exposed to commodity trading risks, including market and 
operational risks.
Commodity trading is an important component of our Upstream, Integrated Gas and Downstream 
businesses and is integrated with our supply business. Processing, managing and monitoring a large 
number of trading transactions across the world, some of which are complex, exposes us to operational 
and market risks, including commodity price risks. We use derivative instruments such as futures and 
contracts for differences to hedge market risks. However, we do not hedge all our activities and where 
hedging is in place, it may not function as expected. The risk of ineffective controls and oversight of trading 
activities and the risk that traders, individually or as a group, could act intentionally outside of the limits 
and controls, could have material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
  S ee “Liquidity and capital resources” on page 80 and 
Note 19 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on pages 227-231.
In effecting commodity trades and derivative contracts, 
the Company operates within procedures and policies 
designed to ensure that risks are managed within 
authorised limits. For example, the use of external 
derivative instruments is confined to specialist trading 
organisations that have appropriate skills, experience, 
supervision, control and reporting systems. There is regular 
review of mandated trading limits by senior management, 
daily monitoring of market risk exposure using value-at-risk 
(VAR) techniques, daily monitoring of trading positions 
against limits, and marking-to-fair value of trading 
exposures with a department independent of traders 
reviewing the market values applied. Our trading 
organisation has a compliance manual addressing our 
operational risks which all staff are required to follow.
We have substantial pension commitments, funding of which is subject to 
capital market risks and other factors.
Liabilities associated with defined benefit pension plans are significant, as can be cash funding 
requirement of such plans; both depend on various assumptions. Volatility in capital markets or 
government policies, and the resulting consequences for investment performance and interest rates, 
as well as changes in assumptions for mortality, retirement age or pensionable remuneration at 
retirement, could result in significant changes to the funding level of future liabilities. We operate 
a number of defined benefit pension plans and, in case of a shortfall, we could be required to 
make substantial cash contributions (depending on the applicable local regulations) resulting 
in a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
  S ee “Liquidity and capital resources” on page 81.
A pensions forum, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer 
oversees Shell’s input to pension strategy, policy and 
operation. The forum is supported by a risk committee 
in reviewing the results of assurance processes with 
respect to pension risks. Local trustees manage the 
funded defined benefit pension plans, with contributions 
paid based on independent actuarial valuations in 
accordance with local regulations.
We mainly self-insure our risk exposure. We could incur significant losses 
from different types of risks that are not covered by insurance from 
third-party insurers.
Our insurance subsidiaries provide hazard insurance coverage to other Shell entities and only reinsure a 
portion of their risk exposures. Such reinsurance would not provide any material coverage in the event of a 
large-scale safety and environmental incident. Accordingly, in the event of a material incident, there would 
not be any material proceeds available from third-party insurance companies to meet our obligations. 
Therefore, we may incur significant losses from different types of risks that are not covered by insurance 
from third-party insurers, potentially resulting in a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows 
and financial condition.
  S ee “Corporate” on page 79.
We continuously assess the safety performance of our 
operations and make risk mitigation recommendations, 
where relevant, to reduce the risk of an accident to as low 
as possible. Our insurance subsidiaries are adequately 
capitalised and transfer risks to third-party insurers 
where economical, effective and relevant. 
Strategic Report

34
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
RISK FACTORS continued
Risk description How this risk is managed
An erosion of our business reputation could have a material adverse effect 
on our brand, our ability to secure new resources or access capital markets, 
and on our licence to operate.
Our reputation is an important asset. The Shell General Business Principles (Principles) govern how Shell 
and its individual companies conduct their affairs, and the Shell Code of Conduct instructs employees and 
contract staff on how to behave in line with the Principles. Our challenge is to ensure that all employees 
and contract staff, more than 100,000 in total, comply with the Principles and the Code of Conduct. Real 
or perceived failures of governance or regulatory compliance or a perceived lack of understanding of 
how our operations affect surrounding communities could harm our reputation. 
Societal expectations of businesses are increasing, with a focus on business ethics, quality of products, 
contribution to society, minimising environmental impacts, and safety. There is increasing focus on the 
role of oil and gas in the context of climate change and energy transition.
This could negatively affect our brand, reputation and licence to operate, which could impact our ability 
to deliver our strategy, consumer demand for our branded and non-branded products, harm our ability to 
secure new resources and contracts, and limit our ability to access capital markets or attract staff. Many 
other factors, including the materialisation of the risks discussed in several of the other risk factors, could 
negatively impact our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows 
and financial condition. 
  S ee “Other Regulatory and Statutory Information” on page 167 
and “Our people” on page 100.
We continuously assess and monitor the external 
environment for potential risks to our reputation. 
We have mitigation plans in place for identified brand 
and reputation risks at the Group, country and line of 
business level. Our country chairs are responsible for the 
implementation of country reputation plans which are 
updated annually. We continuously develop and defend 
our brand in line with Shell’s purpose and promises, and 
target our investments to drive brand differentiation, 
relevance and preference.
Many of our major projects and operations are conducted in joint arrangements 
or with associates. This could reduce our degree of control, as well as our ability 
to identify and manage risks.
In cases where we are not the operator, we have limited influence over, and control of, the behaviour, 
performance and costs of operation of such joint arrangements or associates. Despite not having control, 
we could still be exposed to the risks associated with these operations, including reputational, litigation 
(where joint and several liability could apply) and government sanction risks. For example, our partners or 
members of a joint arrangement or an associate (particularly local partners in developing countries) may 
not be able to meet their financial or other obligations to the projects, threatening the viability of a given 
project. Where we are the operator of a joint arrangement, the other partner(s) could still be able to veto 
or block certain decisions, which could be to our overall detriment. Accordingly, where we have limited 
influence, we are exposed to operational risks that could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, 
cash flows and financial condition.
  S ee “Other Regulatory and Statutory Information” on page 169.
Shell appoints a Joint Venture Asset Manager, whose 
responsibility is to manage performance (create and 
protect value for Shell) by influencing operators and 
other partners to adapt their operating practices to 
appropriately drive value and mitigate identified 
risks. An annual assurance review takes place on 
the alignment of standards and processes in joint 
ventures with the standards applicable to Shell. 
Any gaps identified are followed up by the Joint 
Venture Asset Manager.
We rely heavily on information technology systems in our operations.
The operation of many of our business processes depends on reliable information technology (IT) systems. 
Our IT systems are increasingly concentrated in terms of geography, number of systems, and dependent 
on key contractors supporting the delivery of IT services. Shell is the target of attempts to gain 
unauthorised access to our IT systems and our data through various channels, including more sophisticated 
and coordinated attempts often referred to as advanced persistent threats. Breaches have occurred, 
including to our UK LiveWIRE application where approximately 196,000 accounts and personal data 
were compromised. Where systems, customers’ accounts and data have been compromised, we 
undertake to notify all relevant regulators and impacted customers, in accordance with countries’ laws 
and regulations, including privacy requirements. Timely detection is becoming increasingly complex, but 
we seek to detect and investigate all such security incidents, aiming to prevent their recurrence. Disruption 
of critical IT services, or breaches of information security, could harm our reputation and have a material 
adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
  S ee “Corporate” on pages 79.
We continuously measure and improve our cyber-security 
capabilities. To reduce the likelihood of successful 
cyberattacks our cyber-security capabilities are 
embedded into our IT systems. Our IT landscape 
is protected by various detective and protective 
technologies. The identification and assessment 
capabilities are built into our IT support processes 
and adhere to industry best practices. The security 
of IT services, operated by external IT companies, is 
managed through contractual clauses and through formal 
supplier assurance reports. Shell invests constantly in 
efforts to embed and improve our controls and monitoring 
activities. In case of breaches, all entities, including the 
ones not yet fully integrated into Shell’s systems and 
processes, are required to report and leverage Shell’s 
information security capabilities.
Strategic Report

35
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Risk description How this risk is managed
Violations of antitrust and competition laws carry fines and expose us and/or 
our employees to criminal sanctions and civil suits.
Antitrust and competition laws apply to Shell and its joint ventures and associates in the vast majority of 
countries where we do business. Shell and its joint ventures and associates have been fined for violations 
of antitrust and competition laws in the past. These include a number of fines by the European Commission 
Directorate-General for Competition (DG COMP). Due to DG COMP’s fining guidelines, any future 
conviction of Shell or any of its joint ventures or associates for violation of EU competition law could result 
in significantly larger fines and have a material adverse effect on us. Violation of antitrust laws is a criminal 
offence in many countries, and individuals can be imprisoned or fined. In certain circumstances, directors 
may receive director disqualification orders. It is also now common for persons or corporations allegedly 
injured by antitrust violations to sue for damages. Any violation of these laws can harm our reputation 
and could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
  S ee “Other Regulatory and Statutory Information” on page 167.
We maintain an antitrust programme with adequate 
resources, a comprehensive governance structure and 
established reporting lines. Clear guidance is provided to 
staff, which includes requirements in Shell’s Ethics & 
Compliance manual, an antitrust specific website, training 
modules where completion is monitored and regular 
messages from Shell leaders on the importance of 
managing antitrust risks. Staff must understand 
and comply with the “Protect Shell Policy”, which 
explains Shell’s position on managing competitively 
sensitive information.
Violations of anti-bribery, tax-evasion and anti-money laundering laws carry 
fines and expose us and/or our employees to criminal sanctions, civil suits and 
ancillary consequences (such as debarment and the revocation of licences).
Anti-bribery, tax-evasion and anti-money laundering laws apply to Shell, its joint ventures and associates 
in all countries where we do business. Shell and its joint ventures and associates have in the past settled 
with the US Securities and Exchange Commission regarding violations of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act. Any violation of anti-bribery, tax-evasion or anti-money laundering laws, including those potential 
violations associated with Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company Limited’s investment in 
Nigerian oil block OPL 245 and the 2011 settlement of litigation pertaining to that block, could have a 
material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
  S ee “Our people” on pages 100, “Other Regulatory and Statutory Information” on 
page 167 and Note 25 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on pages 235-237.
We maintain an anti-bribery and anti-money laundering 
(ABC/AML) programme with adequate resources, a 
comprehensive governance structure and established 
reporting lines in place. Clear guidance is provided to 
staff, which includes requirements in Shell’s Ethics & 
Compliance manual, an ABC/AML specific website, 
training modules where completion is monitored and 
regular messages from Shell leaders on the importance of 
management of ABC/AML risks. As to OPL 245, the 2011 
settlement was a fully legal transaction with Eni and the 
Federal Government of Nigeria, represented by the most 
senior officials of the relevant ministries. We maintain our 
view that there is no basis to convict Shell, or any of our 
former employees who are also on trial, in Milan.
Violations of data protection laws carry fines and expose us and/or 
our employees to criminal sanctions and civil suits.
Data protection laws apply to Shell and its joint ventures and associates in the vast majority of countries 
where we do business. Most of the countries we operate in have data protection laws and regulations. 
Additionally, the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into effect in May 2018, which 
increased penalties up to a maximum of 4% of global annual turnover for breach of the regulation. 
The GDPR requires mandatory breach notification, the standard for which is also followed outside the 
EU (particularly in Asia). Non-compliance with data protection laws could expose us to regulatory 
investigations, which could result in fines and penalties and harm our reputation. In the past we have 
breached the GDPR and some investigations are still ongoing with European regulators. To date no 
material fines have been imposed, however, no assurance can be provided that future breaches would 
have similar outcomes. In addition to imposing fines, regulators may also issue orders to stop processing 
personal data, which could disrupt operations. We could also be subject to litigation from persons or 
entities allegedly affected by data protection violations. Violation of data protection laws is a criminal 
offence in some countries, and individuals can be imprisoned or fined. Any violation of these laws or harm 
to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
  S ee “Other Regulatory and Statutory Information” on page 167.
We maintain a data privacy programme with adequate 
resources, a comprehensive governance structure and 
established reporting lines. Clear guidance is provided 
to staff, which includes requirements in Shell’s Ethics & 
Compliance manual, a data privacy specific website, 
training modules where completion is monitored and 
regular messages from Shell leaders on the importance of 
managing data privacy risks. The requirements for incident 
management, set forth in our Binding Corporate Rules 
have been revised to comply with reporting requirements 
under GDPR, as has our approach to privacy impact 
assessments. In 2020 we have established a Privacy by 
Design programme to enhance our controls in this area.
Strategic Report

36
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
RISK FACTORS continued
Risk description How this risk is managed
Violations of trade compliance laws and regulations, including sanctions, carry 
fines and expose us and our employees to criminal sanctions and civil suits.
We use “trade compliance” as an umbrella term for various national and international laws designed 
to regulate the movement of items across national boundaries and restrict or prohibit trade and other 
dealings with certain parties. The number and breadth of such laws continue to expand. For example, 
the EU and the USA continue to impose restrictions and prohibitions on certain transactions involving 
countries such as Syria, Venezuela, Russia and Cuba. In addition, the USA continues to have 
comprehensive sanctions in place against Iran, while the EU and other nations continue to maintain 
targeted sanctions. Additional restrictions and controls directed at defined oil and gas activities in Russia, 
which were imposed by the EU and the USA in 2014, remain in force. Further restrictions regarding Russia 
were introduced by the USA in 2017 and expanded in 2018. Both the EU and the USA introduced sectoral 
sanctions against Venezuela in 2017 , which the USA expanded in 2018 and 2019. The US sanctions 
primarily target the government of Venezuela and the oil industry. Many other nations are also adopting 
trade-control programmes similar to those administered by the EU and the USA. This expansion of 
sanctions, including the frequent additions of prohibited parties, combined with the number of markets in 
which we operate and the large number of transactions we process, make compliance with all sanctions 
complex and at times challenging. Shell has voluntarily self-disclosed potential violations of sanctions in 
the past. Any violation of one or more of these regimes could lead to loss of import or export privileges, 
significant penalties on or prosecution of Shell or its employees and could harm our reputation and 
have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
  S ee “Other Regulatory and Statutory Information” on page 167.
We continue to develop and maintain a trade compliance 
programme with adequate resources, a comprehensive 
governance structure and established reporting lines. 
Clear guidance is provided to staff, which includes 
requirements in Shell’s Ethics & Compliance manual, 
a trade compliance specific website, training modules 
where completion is monitored and regular messages 
from Shell leaders on the importance of managing 
trade compliance risks. The effectiveness of the trade 
compliance programme is assessed annually (or 
more frequently if necessary).
Investors should also consider the following, which could limit shareholder remedies.
The Company’s Articles of Association determine the jurisdiction for shareholder 
disputes. This could limit shareholder remedies.
Our Articles of Association generally require that all disputes between our shareholders in such capacity 
and the Company or our subsidiaries (or our Directors or former Directors), or between the Company and 
our Directors or former Directors, be exclusively resolved by arbitration in The Hague, the Netherlands, 
under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce. Our Articles of Association also 
provide that, if this provision is to be determined invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the dispute could 
only be brought before the courts of England and Wales. Accordingly, the ability of shareholders to obtain 
monetary or other relief, including in respect of securities law claims, could be determined in accordance 
with these provisions.
Strategic Report

37
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
MARKET OVERVIEW
We maintain a large business portfolio across an integrated value chain 
and are exposed to crude oil, natural gas, oil product and chemical prices 
(see “Risk factors” on page 27). This diversified portfolio helps us mitigate 
the impact of price volatility. Our annual planning cycle and periodic 
portfolio reviews aim to ensure that our levels of capital investment and 
operating expenses are appropriate in the context of a volatile price 
environment. We test the resilience of our projects and other opportunities 
against a range of crude oil, natural gas, oil product and chemical prices 
and costs. We also aim to maintain a strong balance sheet to provide 
resilience against weak market prices.
GLOBAL ECONOMIC GROWTH
Economic activity is one of the key drivers of demand for oil, natural gas 
and oil products. Widespread economic and geopolitical uncertainty 
meant the global business environment remained challenging in 2019. 
According to the World Economic Outlook released by the International 
Monetary Fund (IMF) in January 2020, global economic growth for 
2019 is estimated to have fallen to 2.9% from 3.6% in 2018.
A common feature in the weakening of many countries’ GDP was a 
slowdown in industrial output. According to the IMF, this slowdown was 
caused by weak business confidence amid growing trade-related tensions 
between the USA and China. Industrial production also slowed due to 
changes in technology and emissions standards leading to a fall in car 
production and many potential vehicle buyers delaying their purchase 
in favour of a wait-and-see attitude. 
The IMF also noted a slowdown in economic growth in China and other 
large Asian economies, driven by China’s regulatory efforts to limit its 
debt, and exacerbated by increased trade tensions with the USA.
With lingering trade policy and geopolitical uncertainties, the global 
economic outlook for 2020 remains precarious. A key uncertainty for 
the global economy will be the impact of the COVID-19 (coronavirus) 
outbreak in China and elsewhere.
GLOBAL PRICES, DEMAND AND SUPPLY
The following table provides an overview of the main crude oil and 
natural gas price markers that we are exposed to:
Oil and gas average industry prices [A]
2019 2018 2017
Brent ($/b) 64 71 54
West Texas Intermediate ($/b) 57 65 51
Henry Hub ($/MMBtu) 2.5 3.1 3.0
UK National Balancing Point 
(pence/therm) 35 60 45
Japan Customs-cleared Crude ($/b) 67 73 54
[A] Y early average prices are based on daily spot prices. The 2019 average price for Japan 
Customs-cleared Crude excludes December data. 
CRUDE OIL
Brent crude oil, an international benchmark, traded between $53 per 
barrel (/b) and $75/b in 2019, ending the year at $67 /b. Brent crude oil 
prices averaged $64/b for the year, 10% (or $7 /b) lower than in 2018.
At the beginning of 2019, global oil demand for the year was expected 
to grow by 1.4 million barrels per day (b/d). However, as the global 
economic environment weakened throughout 2019, global oil demand 
growth projections for the full year were adjusted downwards. Year 
averaged global oil demand grew by 1.0 million b/d, or 1.0%, to 100.3 
million b/d, according to the International Energy Agency’s (IEA) Oil 
Market Report published in January 2020. This growth was lower than 
the historical average of 1.3 million b/d per year since 2000. Oil demand 
growth was driven by non-OECD economies, where demand grew by 1.1 
million b/d, while oil demand contracted by 0.1 million b/d in the OECD. 
Oil demand growth in 2019 was 0.1 million b/d lower than in 2018, 
when it rose by 1.1 million b/d.
Oil supply in 2019 is estimated in the Oil Market Report at 100.3 million 
b/d, unchanged compared to 2018. Because oil supply and oil demand 
were in balance, we estimate that elevated industry-controlled crude oil 
and oil products stocks remained unchanged from 2018. This limited price 
increases. Average commercial inventory levels for OECD countries in 
November 2019 were estimated at 2,912 million barrels in the Oil Market 
Report. This was around 52 million barrels higher than in November 2018, 
and about 211 million barrels more than the average for 2014, when Brent 
crude oil prices were around $100/b for most of the year.
Non-OPEC supply growth, mostly in the USA, was balanced by lower 
OPEC production. The US Energy Information Administration reported 
another year of supply growth. US production is estimated to have 
averaged 12.3 million b/d in 2019, 1.5 million b/d higher than in 2018, 
and 3 million b/d higher than 2017 . Supply growth was supported by 
continued efficiency gains, and occurred despite lower drilling activity 
reflected by a 23% fall in the onshore oil rig count during the year. 
Production from other non-OPEC countries increased by 0.5 million 
b/d in 2019 and averaged 58.1 million b/d.
For most of 2019, OPEC members and co-operating non-OPEC resource 
holders, most notably Russia, continued to cap their overall production at 
2018 levels. In December 2019, they decided to further cap production 
by 0.5 million b/d becoming effective in 2020. OPEC’s production fell 
from 31.9 million b/d in 2018 to 29.9 million b/d in 2019, in part due to 
sanctions causing production to fall in Iran and Venezuela. Furthermore, 
supply from Venezuela was also affected by a deteriorating 
production environment. 
On a yearly average basis, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil 
traded at a $7 /b discount to Brent crude oil in 2019, compared with $6/b 
in 2018. The discount remained broadly unchanged from 2018, reflecting 
continued constrained pipeline capacity from the landlocked Cushing 
storage hub to the US Gulf Coast, against a backdrop of growing supply 
to the hub. According to the US Energy Information Administration, US 
crude oil exports increased further to a yearly average of about 3 million 
b/d in 2019, up by 1 million b/d from 2018, and peaked above 4 million 
b/d by the end of the year. This helped to limit further widening of the 
price differential between Brent and WTI.
Strategic Report

38
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Looking ahead, the IMF’s global economic outlook indicates some 
increase in global economic growth, which should support oil demand 
growth. According to the IEA, near-term global oil demand growth is 
projected at around 1.3 million b/d per annum. To keep supply and 
demand in balance, demand growth and natural production decline from 
existing operations are to be met by supply growth. If OPEC members and 
co-operating non-OPEC resource holders continue implementing their 
current production agreement successfully, then supply growth would 
have to be delivered by non-OPEC countries, most notably the USA. 
Markets could tighten and prices could rise if US supply growth slows. The 
fall in US drilling activity in 2019 could be a first indicator of moderating 
US supply growth. A lack of industry-wide investment in new supply 
projects could lead to further market tightening in the next few years, 
given the long lead time of many of these projects.
On the other hand, we believe the price environment could weaken if the 
impact of the coronavirus grows or recession fears materialise, and/or 
OPEC and the non-OPEC resource holders relax their production 
agreement. The price environment could also weaken if other non-OPEC 
producers, such as US shale producers, effectively deliver more and 
cheaper oil to the market.
NATURAL GAS
We estimate global gas demand to have grown by about 2.4% in 2019, 
in line with the annual growth rate of 2.5% observed since the start of the 
century. Robust demand growth in power generation and industry was 
driven by attractive regional spot gas prices that encouraged switching 
from competing fuels such as coal and oil. In the key regional markets 
of North America, Europe, and Asia-Pacific, attractive prices have 
been caused mainly by ample gas supply growth.
In 2019, global liquefied natural gas (LNG) imports grew by 40 million 
tonnes, or 13% of the total LNG market. LNG supply growth, mainly in 
Australia, the USA and Russia, outpaced demand growth. In 2019, 
inventory levels were higher in Asia following mild winter conditions. 
LNG imports were down in Japan and South Korea due to milder 
weather and higher nuclear utilisation than in 2018. However, 
more LNG supply flowed into the European markets.
Natural gas prices can vary from region to region.
In the USA, the natural gas price at the Henry Hub averaged $2.5 per 
million British thermal units (MMBtu) in 2019, 19% lower than in 2018. It 
traded in a range of $2.0 to 4.1/MMBtu. There was downward pressure 
on prices due to a strong gas supply growth of about 8 billion cubic feet 
per day, which averaged 10% higher than in 2018. Gas supply growth 
was, in part, driven by a growth of associated gas from oil fields, helped 
by oil prices above $50/b, and by new gas pipeline capacity. Gas prices 
found support from demand growth driven by below-normal storage 
inventory levels; an increase in usage of power for cooling due to warmer 
than normal weather in the second half of the year; completion of LNG 
liquefaction projects; increased exports to Mexico by pipeline; and US 
industrial growth.
In Europe, the average price at the UK National Balancing Point (NBP) 
was 43% lower in 2019 compared to 2018. At the main continental gas 
trading hubs – in the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany – prices were 
also lower, as reflected by weaker Dutch Title Transfer Facility (TTF) prices. 
European gas prices were lower due to: the rise in LNG volume diverted 
from the Asia-Pacific region caused by weaker Asia-Pacific demand 
growth; robust supply of pipeline gas, particularly from Russia; well-filled 
gas storage inventories; competition with renewables in power 
generation; and mild weather.
We also produce and sell natural gas in regions where supply, demand 
and regulatory circumstances differ markedly from those in the USA or 
Europe. Long-term contracted LNG prices in 2019 in the Asia-Pacific 
region were broadly comparable to 2018 prices as they are 
predominantly indexed to oil prices, particularly to the Japan Customs-
cleared Crude (JCC) index which has been generally stable year-on-year. 
Meanwhile, delivered North Asia spot prices, reflected by the Japan 
Korea Marker, declined by 43% versus 2018 as a result of the 
oversupply in the global LNG market.
Looking ahead, we expect gas markets in North America, Europe and 
Asia-Pacific to be well supplied over the next few years, despite our 
expectation of LNG demand growth in Asia. Price developments 
are very uncertain and dependent on many factors.
In the USA, Henry Hub gas prices may increase over the next few 
years due to: increasing demand from LNG exports; exports to Mexico 
by pipeline; and residential and industrial users. On the other hand, 
increasing availability of low-cost natural gas and oil, combined with 
technological improvements, could continue to place pressure on natural 
gas prices. In Europe, we believe gas prices will be increasingly influenced 
by the cost of LNG imports from the USA. In the Asia-Pacific region, 
long-term gas prices are expected to continue to be strongly 
influenced by oil prices and spot prices increasingly by gas 
supply and demand fundamentals.
CRUDE OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICE ASSUMPTIONS
Our ability to deliver competitive returns and pursue commercial 
opportunities ultimately depends on the accuracy of our price assumptions 
(see “Risk factors” on page 27). We determine the range of possible future 
crude oil and natural gas prices to be used in project and portfolio 
evaluations after a rigorous assessment of short, medium and long-term 
market drivers. We consider historical analyses, trends and statistical 
volatility, and market fundamentals such as possible future economic 
conditions, geopolitics, actions by OPEC and other major resource 
holders, production costs, and the balance of supply and demand. We 
use sensitivity analyses to test the impact of low-price drivers like economic 
weakness, and the effect of high-price drivers, such as strong economic 
growth and low investment in new production capacity. See also Note 8 
to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on pages 210-213.
MARKET OVERVIEW continued
Strategic Report

39
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
REFINING MARGINS
Refining marker average industry gross margins
$/b
2019 2018 2017
US West Coast 13.5 11.5 14.0
US Gulf Coast Coking 4.9 7. 0 9.9
Rotterdam Complex 2.3 2.5 4.3
Singapore (0.6) 1.4 3.6
Industry gross refining margins were lower on average in 2019 than in 
2018 in three of the four key refining hubs of Europe, Singapore and the 
US Gulf Coast. Only in the US West Coast did gross margins improve due 
to, in-part, unplanned outages in the region, which supported product 
prices. Globally, year-on-year growth in demand for oil products has 
slowed in line with slowing global economic growth. Refinery capacity 
additions, especially in the Middle East and Asia, combined with lower 
demand growth have led to generally lower refinery utilisations, which 
weakened margins. Refinery activity continued to be low in Latin America 
amid the ongoing geopolitical uncertainty and poor investment climate.
On January 1, 2020 the new International Maritime Organization 
low-sulphur shipping fuel specification came into effect. The refining 
industry started to transition to the new specification in the second half of 
2019 by building a significant inventory of low-sulphur fuels. The full effects 
of the implementation are expected to materialise in 2020.
Refinery margins could weaken in 2020 if the coronavirus materially 
impacts global demand for oil products.
PETROCHEMICAL MARGINS
Cracker industry margins [A]
$/tonne
2019 2018 2017
North East/South East Asia naphtha 302 594 688
Western Europe naphtha 531 562 727
US ethane 445 412 471
[A] I CIS data is quoted. Cracker industry margins have been revised from Q1 2018 onwards 
due to updated cracker margin calculation methodology by ICIS. Further revisions based on 
available market information to external industry data provider up to the end of the period.
In 2019, Chinese GDP growth slowed and there was continued 
uncertainty regarding trade and tariffs between the USA and China. 
Demand growth in several chemicals end-consumption markets slowed 
and, in the automotive sector, demand even contracted. Cracker industry 
margins in Asia halved. Cracker margins in Western Europe and the USA 
were relatively unchanged versus 2018. West European margins were 
supported by a high level of maintenance outages in the first half of 2019, 
while in the USA margins were supported by low ethane prices.
The outlook for petrochemical margins in 2020 and beyond depends 
on supply and demand balances and feedstock costs. Demand for 
petrochemicals is closely linked to economic and trade growth. Product 
prices reflect prices of raw materials, which are closely linked to crude 
oil and natural gas prices. The balance of these factors will drive margins.
The statements in this “Market overview” section, including those 
related to our price forecasts, are forward-looking statements based 
on management’s current expectations and certain material assumptions 
and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual 
results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed 
or implied herein. See “About this Report” on pages 2-3 and “Risk factors” 
on pages 27-36.
Strategic Report

40
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SUMMARY OF RESULTS
Key statistics
$ million, except where indicated
2019 2018 2017
Income for the period 16,432 23,906 13,435
Current cost of supplies adjustment (605) 458 (964)
Total segment earnings [A][B], of which: 15,827 24,364 12,471
Integrated Gas 8,628 11,444 5,078
Upstream 4,195 6,798 1,551
Downstream 6,277 7, 6 0 1 8,258
Corporate (3,273) (1,479) (2,416)
Capital expenditure 22,971 23,011 20,845
Cash capital expenditure [B] 23,919 24,078 21,533
Capital investment [B] 28,788 24,878 23,655
Operating expenses [B] 37, 8 9 3 39,316 38,083
Return on average capital employed [B] 6.7% 9.4% 5.8%
Gearing at December 31 [C] 29.3% 20.3% 25.0%
Oil and gas production (thousand boe/d) 3,665 3,666 3,664
Proved oil and gas reserves at December 31 (million boe) 11,096 11,578 12,233
[A] S egment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. See Note 4 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on pages 206-208. 
[B]
 S
ee “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” on pages 279-280.
[C]
 G
earing at end of 2019 on IAS 17 basis was 25%.
EARNINGS 2019-2018
Income for the period was $16,432 million in 2019, compared with 
$23,906 million in 2018. After current cost of supplies adjustment, total 
segment earnings were $15,827 million in 2019, compared with 
$24,364 million in 2018.
Earnings on a current cost of supplies basis (CCS earnings) exclude the 
effect of changes in the oil price on inventory carrying amounts, after 
making allowance for the tax effect. The purchase price of volumes sold in 
the period is based on the current cost of supplies during the same period, 
rather than on the historic cost calculated on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis. 
Therefore, when oil prices are decreasing, CCS earnings are likely to 
be higher than earnings calculated on a FIFO basis and, when prices 
are increasing, CCS earnings are likely to be lower than earnings 
calculated on a FIFO basis.
Integrated Gas earnings in 2019 were $8,628 million, compared 
with $11,444 million in 2018. The decrease was mainly driven by lower 
gains on sale of assets, lower realised oil, LNG and gas prices, higher 
impairments, higher operating expenses, negative movements in deferred 
tax positions and lower liquids production volumes. These effects were 
partly offset by stronger contributions from LNG trading and optimisation, 
and gains related to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. 
See “Integrated Gas” on pages 45-51.
Upstream earnings in 2019 were $4,195 million, compared with $6,798 
million in 2018. The decrease is mainly driven by higher impairments, lower 
realised oil and gas prices, higher depreciation and higher well write-offs. 
This was partly offset by increased gains on sale of assets and higher 
volumes. See “Upstream” on pages 52-60.
Downstream earnings in 2019 were $6,277 million, compared with 
$7 ,601 million in 2018. The decrease was mainly driven by lower realised 
chemicals, refining and trading margins, legal provisions and lower gains 
related to fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. This was partly 
offset by higher marketing margins, benefit from foreign exchange, 
introduction of IFRS 16 and lower operating costs. See “Downstream” 
on pages 70-78.
Corporate earnings in 2019 were a loss of $3,273 million, compared 
with a loss of $1,479 million in 2018. The higher loss was mainly driven 
by the introduction of IFRS 16 and reduced capitalised interest. This 
was partly offset by reduced tax credits from financing and one-off 
charges. See “Corporate” on page 79.
EARNINGS 2018-2017
Income for the period was $23,906 million in 2018, compared with 
$13,435 million in 2017 . After current cost of supplies adjustment, total 
segment earnings were $24,364 million in 2018, compared with 
$12,471 million in 2017 . 
Integrated Gas earnings in 2018 were $11,444 million, compared 
with $5,078 million in 2017 . The increase was mainly driven by higher 
realised oil, gas, and LNG prices, higher gains on divestments, increased 
contributions from LNG trading, the impact of fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives, and higher production. These effects were partly 
offset by the absence of a gain from the strengthening Australian dollar 
on a deferred tax position in 2017 and by higher operating expenses. 
See “Integrated Gas” on pages 45-51.
Upstream earnings in 2018 were $6,798 million, compared with $1,551 
million in 2017 . The increase was mainly driven by higher realised oil and 
gas prices, lower impairment charges, the absence of a charge as a result 
of US tax reform legislation in 2017 , and lower well write-offs. This was 
partly offset by the movements in deferred tax positions, lower gains on 
divestments, lower production, and a charge related to the impact of the 
weakening Brazilian real on a deferred tax position. See “Upstream” on 
pages 52-60.
Downstream earnings in 2018 were $7 ,601 million, compared with 
$8,258 million in 2017 . The decrease was mainly driven by higher 
operating expenses, unfavourable exchange rate effects, and lower 
realised base chemicals and refining margins. This was partly offset by 
higher realised marketing margins, lower charges related to provisions, 
the impact of fair value accounting of commodity derivatives and higher 
gains on divestments. There was also a charge in 2017 as a result of 
US tax reform legislation. See “Downstream” on pages 70-78.
Strategic Report

41
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Corporate earnings in 2018 were a loss of $1,479 million, compared with 
a loss of $2,416 million in 2017 . The lower loss was mainly driven by lower 
net foreign exchange losses and net interest expense, partially offset by 
higher costs. There was also a charge in 2017 as a result of US tax reform 
legislation. See “Corporate” on page 79.
PRODUCTION AVAILABLE FOR SALE
Oil and gas production available for sale in 2019 was 1,338 million 
barrels of oil equivalent (boe), or 3,665 thousand boe per day (boe/d), 
compared with 1,338 million boe, or 3,666 thousand boe/d, in 2018. 
In 2019, lower production was due to the impact of divestments and 
field decline, partly offset by field ramp-ups in North America, Brazil, 
Australia and Trinidad and Tobago. 
Oil and gas production available for sale [A]
Thousand boe/d
2019 2018 2017
Crude oil and natural gas liquids 1,823 1,749 1,730
Synthetic crude oil 52 53 91
Bitumen – – 4
Natural gas [B] 1,790 1,863 1,839
Total 3,665 3,666 3,664
Of which:
Integrated Gas 922 957 887
Upstream 2,743 2,709 2,777
[A] S ee “Oil and gas information” on pages 61-69.
[B]
 N
atural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.
PROVED RESERVES
The proved oil and gas reserves of Shell subsidiaries and the Shell share 
of the proved oil and gas reserves of joint ventures and associates are 
summarised in “Oil and gas information” on pages 61-69 and set out 
in more detail in “Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited)” 
on pages 239-256.
Before taking production into account, our proved reserves increased by 
906 million boe in 2019. This comprised increases of 912 million boe from 
Shell subsidiaries and decreases of 6 million boe from the Shell share of 
joint ventures and associates. The increase from Shell subsidiaries included 
a net increase of 785 million boe from revisions and reclassifications, an 
increase of 5 million boe from improved recovery, an increase of 276 
million from extensions and discoveries and a net decrease of 154 million 
boe related to purchases and sales of minerals in place. The decrease of 6 
million boe from the Shell share of joint ventures and associates comprises 
a net decrease of 13 million boe from revisions and reclassifications, an 
increase of 3 million from extensions and discoveries and an increase 
of 4 million from improved recovery.
In 2019, total oil and gas production was 1,388 million boe, of which 1,338 
million boe was available for sale and 50 million boe was consumed in 
operations. Production available for sale from subsidiaries was 1,182 
million boe and 43 million boe was consumed in operations. The Shell 
share of the production available for sale of joint ventures and associates 
was 156 million boe and 7 million boe was consumed in operations.
Accordingly, after taking production into account, our proved reserves 
decreased by 482 million boe in 2019, to 11,096 million boe at December 
31, 2019, with a decrease of 314 million boe from subsidiaries and 
a decrease of 169 million boe from the Shell share of joint ventures 
and associates.
CASH CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND OTHER INFORMATION
Cash capital expenditure was $23.9 billion in 2019, compared with $24.1 
billion in 2018. Capital investment was $28.8 billion in 2019, compared 
with $24.9 billion in 2018.
Operating expenses reduced by $1.4 billion in 2019, to $37 .9 billion.
Our ROACE decreased to 6.7%, compared with 9.4% in 2018, mainly 
driven by a lower income in 2019.
Gearing was 29.3% at the end of 2019, compared with 20.3% at the end 
of 2018, driven by IFRS 16 and a lower cash balance in 2019. Gearing at 
the end of 2019 on an IAS 17 basis was 25.0%.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
See Note 2 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on pages 195-204.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
See Note 25 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on pages 235-237 .
Strategic Report

42
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
These indicators enable management to evaluate Shell’s performance against 
our strategy and operating plans. Those that are used in the determination 
of the Executive Directors’ remuneration are asterisked below and on the 
following page. See “Directors’ Remuneration Report” on pages 135-163.
Total shareholder return (%)*
0.5 20 18: (4.2)
Total shareholder return (TSR) is the difference between the share price 
at the beginning of the year and the share price at the end of the year 
(each averaged over 90 days), plus gross dividends delivered during 
the calendar year (reinvested quarterly), expressed as a percentage 
of the share price at the beginning of the year (averaged over 90 days). 
The data used are a weighted average in dollars for A and B shares. The 
TSRs of major publicly-traded oil and gas companies can be compared 
directly, thereby providing a way to determine how we are performing 
relative to our industry peers.
Cash flow from operating activities ($ million)*
42,178 20 18: 53,085
Cash flow from operating activities is the total of all the cash receipts 
and payments associated with our sales of oil, gas, chemicals and other 
products. The components that provide a reconciliation from income 
for the period are listed in the “Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows”. 
This indicator reflects our ability to generate cash to service and reduce 
our debt and for distributions to shareholders and investments.
  S ee “Liquidity and capital resources” on pages 80-83.
Free cash flow ($ million)*
26,399 20 18: 39,426
Free cash flow is the sum of “Cash flow from operating activities” and 
“Cash flow from investing activities”, which are listed in the “Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows”. This indicator is used to evaluate the cash 
available for financing activities, including dividend payments, after 
investment in maintaining and growing our business.
  S ee “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” on pages 279-280.
Organic free cash flow ($ million)
20,116 2 018: 31,183
Organic free cash flow is defined as free cash flow excluding the 
cash flows from acquisition and divestment activities. It is a measure 
used by management to evaluate the generation of cash flow 
without these activities.
  S ee “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” on pages 279-280.
Return on average capital employed (%)*
6.7 20 18: 9.4
ROACE is defined as income for the period, adjusted for after-tax interest 
expense, as a percentage of the average capital employed during the 
year. Capital employed is the sum of total equity and total debt. ROACE 
measures the efficiency of our utilisation of the capital that we employ 
and is a common measure of business performance.
  S ee “Summary of results” on pages 40-41 and 
“Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” on pages 279-280.
Earnings on a current cost of supplies basis 
($ million)
15,827 20 18: 24,364
Earnings per share on a current cost of supplies 
basis ($)
1.88 20 18: 2.85
Earnings on a CCS basis is the income for the period, adjusted for the 
after-tax effect of oil-price changes on inventory. Segment earnings 
presented on a CCS basis is the earnings measure used by the Chief 
Executive Officer for the purposes of making decisions about allocating 
resources and assessing performance.
  S ee “Summary of results” on pages 40-41 and 
“Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” on pages 279-280.
CCS earnings per share, which is on a diluted basis above, is calculated 
by dividing the CCS earnings attributable to shareholders (see “Non-
GAAP measures reconciliations” on pages 279-280) by the average 
number of shares outstanding over the year, increased by the average 
number of dilutive shares related to share-based compensation plans.
Capital investment ($ million)
28,788 2 018: 24,878
Capital investment is the sum of capital expenditure, investments in joint 
ventures and associates, investments in equity securities, as reported in 
the “Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows”, plus exploration expenses 
excluding wells written off and leases recognised in the period and other 
adjustments. Capital investment is a measure used to make decisions 
about allocating resources and assessing performance.
  S ee “Liquidity and capital resources” on pages 80-83 and 
“Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” on pages 279-280. 
Financial
Strategic Report

43
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Cash capital expenditure ($ million)
23,919 2 018: 24,078
Cash capital expenditure is the sum of capital expenditure, investments 
in joint ventures and associates, and investments in equity securities, 
as reported in the “Consolidated Statement of Cash flows”. It is used to 
monitor investing activities on a cash basis, excluding items such as lease 
additions that do not necessarily result in cash outflows in the period.
  S ee “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” on pages 279-280.
Gearing (%)
29.3 20 18: 20.3
Gearing is defined as net debt (total debt less cash and cash equivalents) 
as a percentage of total capital (net debt plus total equity) at December 
31. Gearing at the end of 2019 on an IAS 17 basis was 25.0%. The net 
debt calculation includes the fair value of derivative financial instruments 
used to hedge foreign exchange, interest rate risks relating to debt and 
associated collateral balances. The inclusion of these debt-related 
derivative balances reduces the volatility of net debt caused by 
fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates, and eliminates the 
potential impact of related collateral payments or receipts. Gearing is 
a measure of the degree to which our operations are financed by debt.
  S ee “Liquidity and capital resources” on pages 80-83.
Financial continued
Production available for sale (thousand boe/d)*
3,665 20 18: 3,666
Production is the sum of all the average daily volumes of unrefined oil 
and natural gas produced for sale by Shell subsidiaries and Shell’s 
share of those produced for sale by joint ventures and associates. 
The unrefined oil comprises crude oil, NGLs, synthetic crude oil and 
bitumen. The gas volume is converted into equivalent barrels of oil 
to make the summation possible. 
  S ee “Summary of results” on pages 40-41.
LNG liquefaction volumes (million tonnes)*
35.6 20 18: 34.3
LNG liquefaction volumes is a measure of the operational performance 
of our Integrated Gas business and LNG market demand.
  S ee “Integrated Gas” on pages 45-51.
Refinery and chemical plant availability (%)*
90.8 20 18: 91.9
Refinery and chemical plant availability is the weighted average of the 
actual uptime of plants as a percentage of their maximum possible uptime. 
The weighting is based on the capital employed, adjusted for cash and 
non-current liabilities. This indicator is a measure of the operational 
excellence of our Downstream manufacturing facilities.
  S ee “Downstream” on pages 70-78.
Project delivery on schedule (%)*
90 20 18: 75
Project delivery on budget (%)*
99 20 18: 97
Project delivery reflects our capability to complete major projects on 
time and within budget on the basis of the targets set in our annual 
Business Plan. Project delivery on schedule measures the percentage 
of projects delivered on schedule. Project delivery on budget reflects 
the aggregate cost against the aggregate budget for those projects.
Proved oil and gas reserves (million boe)
11,096 2 018: 11,578
Proved oil and gas reserves are the total estimated quantities of oil 
and gas from Shell subsidiaries and Shell’s share from joint ventures 
and associates that geoscience and engineering data demonstrate, 
with reasonable certainty, to be recoverable in future years from known 
reservoirs, at December 31, under existing economic conditions, operating 
methods and government regulations. Gas volumes are converted into 
boe using a factor of 5,800 scf/b. Reserves are crucial to an oil and gas 
company, as they constitute the source of future production. Reserves 
estimates are subject to change owing to a wide variety of factors, 
some of which are unpredictable.
  S ee “Risk factors” on pages 27-36, 
“Summary of results” on page 40-41, 
“Oil and gas information” on pages 61-69 and 
“Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited)” 
on pages 239-256. 
Operational
Strategic Report

44
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS continued
Total recordable case frequency 
(injuries per million working hours)*
0.9 2018: 0.9
Total recordable case frequency (TRCF) is the number of employees and 
contract staff injuries requiring medical treatment or time off for every 
million hours worked. It is a standard measure of occupational safety.
  See “Environment and society” on pages 84-90.
Number of operational Tier 1 and 2 process 
safety events*
130 2018: 121
A Tier 1 process safety event is an unplanned or uncontrolled release 
of any material, including non-toxic and non-flammable materials, from 
a process with the greatest actual consequence resulting in harm to 
employees, contract staff, or a neighbouring community, damage to 
equipment, or exceeding a threshold quantity, as defined by the API 
Recommended Practice 754 and IOGP Standard 456. A Tier 2 
process safety event is a release of lesser consequence.
  See “Environment and society” on pages 84-90.
Upstream and Integrated Gas GHG intensity 
(tonnes of CO2 equivalent/tonne of hydrocarbon 
production available for sale)*
0.17 2018: 0.16
Upstream/midstream GHG intensity is a measure of GHG emissions 
(direct and indirect GHG emissions associated with imported energy, 
excluding emissions from exported energy), expressed in metric tonnes 
of CO2 equivalent, emitted into the atmosphere per metric tonne 
of hydrocarbon production available for sale.
  See “Climate change and energy transition” on pages 91-98.
Refining GHG intensity 
(tonnes of CO2 equivalent/UEDC™)*
1.06 2018: 1.05
Refining GHG intensity is a measure of GHG emissions (direct and indirect 
GHG emissions associated with imported energy, excluding emissions 
from exported energy), expressed in metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent, 
emitted into the atmosphere per unit of Utilised Equivalent Distillation 
Capacity (UEDC™). UEDC™ is a proprietary metric of Solomon 
Associates. It is a complexity-weighted normalisation parameter that 
reflects the operating cost intensity of a refinery based on the size and 
configuration of its particular mix of process and non-process facilities.
  See “Climate change and energy transition” on pages 91-98. 
Chemicals GHG intensity (tonnes of CO2 
equivalent/tonne petrochemicals produced)*
1.04 2018: 0.96
Chemicals GHG intensity is a measure of GHG emissions (direct and 
indirect GHG emissions associated with imported energy, excluding 
emissions from exported energy), expressed in metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent, emitted into the atmosphere per metric tonne of steam 
cracker, high-value petrochemicals production.
  See “Climate change and energy transition” on pages 91-98.
Number of operational spills of more than 100 kg
70 2018: 93
The operational spills indicator is the number of incidents in respect 
of activities where we are the operator in which 100 kg or more of oil 
or oil products were spilled as a result of those activities and reached 
the environment. 
  See “Environment and society” on pages 84-90.
Direct GHG emissions 
(million tonnes of CO2 equivalent)
70 2018: 71
Direct GHG emissions from facilities operated by Shell, expressed 
in CO2 equivalent. 
  See “Climate change and energy transition” on pages 91-98.
Net Carbon Footprint 
(grams of CO2 equivalent per megajoule)*
78 2018: 79
Net Carbon Footprint is a comprehensive measure of the lifecycle carbon 
intensity of the energy products we sell. It is a weighted average of the 
lifecycle CO2 intensities of different energy products, normalised to the 
same point relative to their final end-use. It includes emissions from the 
extraction, transportation and processing of crude oil or gas or other 
feedstocks, transport of products, and our customers’ emissions from the 
use of products we sell. Also included are emissions from elements of this 
life-cycle not owned by Shell, such as oil and gas processed by Shell but 
not produced by Shell; or from oil products and electricity marketed by 
Shell that have not been processed or generated at a Shell facility. 
Emissions compensated through various measures are also included, 
such as emissions mitigated by nature-based solutions and carbon 
capture and storage technology. 
  See “Climate change and energy transition” on pages 91-98.
Safety and Environment
Strategic Report

45
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Key statistics
$ million, except where indicated
2019 2018 2017
Segment earnings 8,628 11,444 5,078
Including:
Revenue (including inter-segment sales) 45,602 48,795 36,770
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 1,791 2,273 1,714
Interest and other income 263 2,230 687
Operating expenses [A] 6,667 6,014 5,471
Exploration 281 208 141
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 6,238 4,850 4,965
Taxation charge 2,242 2,795 790
Capital expenditure 3,851 3,262 3,515
Cash capital expenditure [A] 4,299 3,819 3,616
Capital investment [A] 6,706 4,259 3,921
Oil and gas production available for sale (thousand boe/d) 922 957 887
LNG liquefaction volumes (million tonnes) 35.6 34.3 33.2
[A] S ee “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” on pages 279-280.
INTEGRATED GAS
OVERVIEW
Our Integrated Gas business manages liquefied natural gas (LNG) 
activities and the conversion of natural gas into gas-to-liquids (GTL) fuels 
and other products, as well as our New Energies portfolio. It includes 
natural gas and liquids exploration and extraction, and the operation 
of upstream and midstream infrastructure that delivers gas and liquids to 
market. It markets and trades natural gas, LNG, electricity and carbon-
emission rights, and markets and sells LNG as a fuel for heavy-duty 
vehicles and marine vessels.
BUSINESS CONDITIONS
Global gas demand is estimated to have grown by about 2.4% in 2019 
which is in line with the annual growth rate of 2.5% observed since the 
start of the century.
Global LNG imports grew by 40 million tonnes in 2019. Significant LNG 
supply growth came mainly from Australia, the USA and Russia. In 2019, 
inventory levels were higher in Asia following mild winter conditions. LNG 
imports were down in Japan and South Korea due to milder weather and 
higher nuclear utilisation than in 2018. However, more LNG supply flowed 
into the European markets. 
Natural gas prices can vary from region to region.
In the USA, the natural gas price at the Henry Hub averaged $2.5 per 
million British thermal units (MMBtu) in 2019, 19% lower than in 2018 and 
traded in a range of $2.0 to 4.1/MMBtu.
In Europe, natural gas prices were lower than in 2018. The average price 
at the UK National Balancing Point (NBP) was 35 pence/therm, 43% 
lower than in 2018. At the main continental gas trading hubs – in the 
Netherlands, Belgium and Germany – prices were also lower, as 
reflected by weaker Dutch Title Transfer Facility (TTF) prices. 
Long-term contracted LNG prices in the Asia-Pacific region are broadly 
comparable to 2018 prices as they are predominantly indexed to oil 
prices, particularly to the Japan Customs-cleared Crude (JCC) index 
which has been generally stable year-on-year. Meanwhile, North Asia 
spot prices, reflected by the Japan Korea Marker (JKM) were $5.55/
mmbtu, 43% lower than 2018 as a result of unprecedented additional 
supply of LNG coming on stream. 
  S ee “Market overview” on pages 37-40.
PRODUCTION AVAILABLE FOR SALE
In 2019, production was 336 million barrels of oil equivalent (boe), or 922 
thousand boe per day (boe/d), compared with 349 million boe, or 957 
thousand boe/d in 2018. Natural gas production increased by 3% 
compared with 2018, mainly due to field ramp-ups in Australia and 
Trinidad and Tobago combined with higher availability at Pearl GTL in 
Qatar in 2019, partially offset by divestments. Liquids production 
decreased 27%, mainly due to the transfer of the Salym asset in Russia 
into the Upstream segment.
LNG LIQUEFACTION VOLUMES
LNG liquefaction volumes of 35.6 million tonnes in 2019 were 4% higher 
than in 2018, driven by additional volumes from increased feedgas 
availability, mainly from ventures, and new LNG capacity from the Prelude 
floating LNG facility in Australia and Elba LNG in USA, partly offset by 
the divestment of Malaysia LNG.
LNG sales volumes of 74.45 million tonnes in 2019 were 5% higher than 
in 2018, driven by our increased LNG purchases from third parties and 
by higher LNG liquefaction volumes.
EARNINGS 2019-2018 
Segment earnings in 2019 were $8,628 million, which included a net 
charge of $326 million. The net charge mainly reflected impairment 
charges of $890 million mostly in Australia, negative movements in 
deferred tax positions of $292 million and write-offs of $131 million 
in Australia and Trinidad and Tobago, respectively. These were partly 
offset by a gain of $787 million related to the fair value accounting 
of commodity derivatives and a gain of $203 million on a sale of 
assets in Australia. 
Segment earnings in 2018 were $11,444 million, which included a net gain 
of $2,045 million. The net gain primarily reflected gains of $1,937 million 
on sale of assets, mainly related to the divestment of assets in Thailand, 
New Zealand and India. It also comprised a gain of $481 million related 
to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives and impairment 
charges of $371 million related to investments in Trinidad and Tobago 
and Shell’s investment in a joint venture. 
Strategic Report

46
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Excluding the net charge described above, segment earnings were 
$8,955 million in 2019 compared with $9,399 million in 2018. Earnings 
were negatively impacted by lower realised oil, LNG and gas prices, 
higher operating expenses (of which about 50% relates to New 
Energies reflecting underlying business growth), and lower liquids 
production volumes, partly offset by significantly stronger 
contributions from LNG trading and optimisation. 
EARNINGS 2018-2017
Segment earnings in 2018 were $11,444 million, which included a net 
gain of $2,045 million as described above.
Segment earnings in 2017 were $5,078 million, which included a net 
charge of $190 million. The net charge mainly reflected a charge of $445 
million on fair value accounting of commodity derivatives and a charge 
of $412 million as a result of US tax reform legislation, partly offset by 
a gain of $636 million from the strengthening Australian dollar on a 
deferred tax position.
Excluding the net gain above, segment earnings were $9,399 million in 
2018 compared with $5,268 million in 2017 . Earnings were positively 
impacted by increased contributions from trading and higher realised oil, 
gas and LNG prices (around $4,200 million), increased LNG volumes 
from various assets across the portfolio (around $615 million). Earnings 
were negatively impacted by higher operating expenses (around $502 
million of which $246 million relates to growth of New Energies activities) 
and lower dividends due to divestments (around $274 million).
In 2018, the impact of exchange rate movements of the Australian dollar 
on deferred tax balances was significantly reduced, as a result of the 
change in the fiscal functional currency of a number of Shell entities in 
Australia to the US dollar with effect from January 1, 2018.
CASH CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND CAPITAL INVESTMENT
Cash capital expenditure in 2019 was $4.3 billion, compared with $3.8 
billion in 2018. Capital investment in 2019 was $6.7 billion, compared 
with $4.3 billion in 2018.
PORTFOLIO AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
Key portfolio events in 2019 included the following:
 ■ In December 2018, we formed two joint ventures: with EDF Renewables 
to build wind farms off the New Jersey coast; and with EDP 
Renewables (EDPR) to build wind farms off Massachusetts, in the USA. 
Leases were granted by the authorities for JV with EDF in December 
2018 and with EDPR in February 2019. In November, Massachusetts 
state authorities selected our JV with EDPR (Shell interest 50%) to 
develop and supply 804 MW of clean, renewable energy from 
offshore wind to the electricity customers in the state;
 ■ In February, we acquired sonnen, a provider of smart energy 
storage systems; and
 ■ In November, we acquired ERM Power, one of Australia’s leading 
commercial and industrial electricity retailers.
The following major milestones were reached in 2019:
 ■ In June, the first shipment of LNG sailed from our Prelude Floating 
Liquefied Natural Gas facility (Shell interest 67 .5%);
 ■ In September, the first of 10 Moveable Modular Liquefaction System 
(MMLS) Units started up at Elba Island in Savannah, Georgia, 
USA; and
 ■ In November, FID was taken for the Barracuda Project (Shell interest 
100%), a subsea tie-back of two gas wells to an existing platform on 
the East Coast of Trinidad.
We continued to divest selected assets during 2019, including:
 ■ In Timor-Leste (East Timor), we sold our 26.6% interest in the 
undeveloped Sunrise gas field to the Timor-Leste government; and
 ■ In India, we sold our 10% interest in Mahanagar Gas Limited.
BUSINESS AND PROPERTY
LNG AND GTL
Australia
We have interests in offshore production, LNG liquefaction and 
exploration licences in the North West Shelf (NWS) and Greater Gorgon 
areas of the Carnarvon Basin and in the Browse Basin. Woodside is the 
operator on behalf of the NWS joint venture (Shell interest 16.7%), 
which produced more than 480 thousand boe/d of gas and 
condensates in 2019.
We have a 25% interest in the Gorgon LNG joint venture, which is 
operated by Chevron. The venture started operating in 2016, producing 
from the offshore Gorgon and Jansz-Io fields via a three-train LNG plant 
on Barrow Island.
We are also a partner in the Browse joint arrangement (Shell interest 
27%) covering the Brecknock, Calliance and Torosa gas fields, which is 
operated by Woodside.
We are the operator of Prelude FLNG (67 .5% Shell interest). During 2019, 
the facility progressed through the start-up ramp-up phase, with the first 
condensate offtake in March 2019, followed by the first LNG offtake in 
June 2019 and the first NGL offtake in July 2019. Our other interests in the 
basin include a joint arrangement, with Shell as the operator, for the Crux 
gas and condensate field (Shell interest 82%) and other backfill and 
contingent resources.
A significant discovery was made at the Bratwurst prospect in 
Browse basin, Australia near the Prelude FLNG facility which presents 
an opportunity for a future tie-back to Prelude, currently under evaluation, 
to maximise the FLNG value.
The Prelude floating liquefied natural gas (FLNG) facility produces 
natural gas off the coast of Australia.
The sale of Shell’s interest in the undeveloped Sunrise gas field in the 
Timor Sea (Shell interest 26.6%) to the government of Timor-Leste 
was completed in 2019.
We are a partner in both Shell-operated and other exploration joint 
arrangements in multiple basins, including Browse, Exmouth Plateau, 
and Greater Gorgon.
INTEGRATED GAS continued
Strategic Report

47
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
We have a 50% interest in Arrow, a Queensland-based joint venture 
with CNPC. Arrow owns coal-bed methane assets and a domestic 
power business.
We have a 50% interest in train one and a 97 .5% interest in train two 
of the Shell-operated Queensland Curtis LNG (QCLNG) venture. The 
two-train liquefaction plant has an installed capacity of 8.5 mtpa. We 
also operate the venture’s natural gas operations, which include wells, 
compression stations and processing plants, in Queensland’s Surat Basin. 
We have interests ranging from 44% to 74% in 24 field compression 
stations and six central processing plants. Our production of natural 
gas from the onshore Surat Basin supplies the liquefaction plant and 
the domestic gas market.
A gas sales agreement between Arrow and QCLNG has been signed, 
under which gas from Arrow’s Surat Basin fields would flow to the 
QCLNG venture, which would then sell gas to local customers and 
export it through its gas plant on Curtis Island.
Brunei
We have a 25% interest in Brunei LNG Sendirian Berhad.
Canada
In 2018, we took FID on LNG Canada, a liquefied natural gas project in 
Kitimat, British Columbia, in which we hold a 40% interest. Construction 
started in October 2018 and first LNG is expected before the middle 
of this decade. 
Egypt
We have interests of 35.5% in train one and 38% in train two of the 
Egyptian LNG (ELNG) plant. In January 2014, force majeure notices were 
issued under the LNG agreements as a result of domestic gas diversions 
severely restricting volumes available to ELNG. These notices remain in 
place. See “Oil and gas information” on page 61-68.
Gibraltar
We have a 51% interest in the first LNG regasification facility in Gibraltar.
India
We hold a 100% interest in Shell Energy India Pvt Ltd, which operates a 
regasification terminal, and Hazira Port Pvt Ltd, which manages a cargo 
port at Hazira, both of which are located in the state of Gujarat on the 
west coast.
Operator looking at a vessel at the Shell Hazira port and LNG Terminal, India.
Indonesia
We have a 35% interest in the INPEX Masela Ltd joint venture which 
owns and operates the offshore Masela block. In June 2019, the joint 
venture received the official approval of Plan of Development (POD) for 
the Abadi LNG Project from the Indonesian government authorities. The 
government also granted a 20-year extension to the Masela block PSC 
in October 2019.
Malaysia
We operate a GTL plant, Shell MDS (Shell interest 72%). Using Shell 
technology, the plant converts gas into high-quality middle distillates, 
drilling fluids, waxes and specialty products.
Netherlands
We have access to import and storage capacity at the GATE LNG 
terminal in the Port of Rotterdam, Netherlands (Shell capacity rights 
1.4 million tonnes per annum (mtpa). We are also using the terminal to 
supply LNG to our growing truck-refuelling network in the Netherlands.
Nigeria
We have a 25.6% interest in Nigeria LNG Ltd, which operates six 
LNG trains located on Bonny Island. 
Norway
Gasnor AS (Shell interest 100%) provides LNG fuel for ships and industrial 
customers and has a natural gas pipeline network.
Oman
We have a 30% interest in Oman LNG LLC. We also have an 11% indirect 
interest in Qalhat LNG. 
In February 2019, we signed an Interim Upstream agreement that detailed 
a funding and a work programme for 2019 for the development of gas 
resources destined for integrated projects to help meet the Sultanate of 
Oman’s growing need for energy. The other signatories were Petroleum 
Development Oman (PDO), Oman Oil Company (OOC) and Total. The 
project covers investments in gas exploration and production. The aim is 
to integrate the Shell and OOC share of the upstream project with the 
development of a GTL plant currently under discussion, which would be 
developed and operated by Shell in partnership with OOC.
Peru
We have a 20% interest in the Peru LNG liquefaction plant.
Strategic Report

48
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
INTEGRATED GAS continued
Qatar
We operate the Pearl GTL plant (Shell interest 100%) in Qatar under a 
development and PSC with the government. The fully-integrated facility 
has capacity for production, processing and transportation of 1.6 billion 
standard cubic feet per day (scf/d) of gas from Qatar’s North Field. It has 
an installed capacity of about 140 thousand boe/d of high-quality liquid 
hydrocarbon products and 120 thousand boe/d of natural gas liquids 
(NGL) and ethane.
We have a 30% interest in Qatargas 4, which comprises integrated 
facilities to produce about 1.4 billion scf/d of gas from Qatar’s North Field, 
an onshore gas-processing facility and one LNG train with a collective 
production capacity of 7 .8 mtpa of LNG and 70 thousand boe/d of 
condensate and NGL.
Operators at Pearl GTL plant, Qatar.
Russia
We have a 27 .5% interest in Sakhalin-2, the joint venture with Gazprom, 
an integrated oil and gas project located on Sakhalin island.
Singapore
We have a 50% interest in a joint venture with KS Investments (the 
investment arm of Keppel Group) that holds a licence to supply LNG 
fuel for vessels in the Port of Singapore. We have aggregator licences 
to import LNG into Singapore and market the gas to power plants 
and other customers.
Tanzania
We have a 60% interest in, and are the operator of, Blocks 1 and 4 
offshore southern Tanzania. The blocks cover approximately 4,000 
square kilometres of the Mafia Deep Offshore Basin and the northern 
part of the Rovuma Basin. We continue to develop a potential LNG 
project with partners in Block 2, in line with the Block 1 and 4 appraisal 
programme agreed with the Tanzanian government. We are engaging 
with the government to extend the Block 4 licence. The government has 
confirmed that the Block 4 licence, which had initially been due to 
expire on October 31, 2017 , remains in full force pending the grant 
of the licence extension.
Trinidad and Tobago
We have interests in three concessions with producing fields – Central 
Block, East Coast Marine Area (ECMA) and North Coast Marine Area 
(NCMA) blocks. We have a 65% interest in Central Block, 100% interest 
in ECMA and 80.5% interest in NCMA. We also own 90% interest in 
block 22 and 80% in NCMA 4 which include three undeveloped 
discoveries. Our interests range from 35% to 100% in exploration 
activities in blocks 5(c), 5(d), 6(d), and Atlantic Area blocks 3, 5, and 6.
We are the largest shareholder in all four trains at Atlantic LNG.
UK
We have a 50% interest in the Dragon LNG regasification terminal, with 
long-term arrangements in place governing the use of capacity rights.
USA
We have offtake rights via a lease to 100% of the capacity (2.5 mtpa) of 
the Kinder Morgan-operated Elba Island liquefaction plant, which consists 
of 10 MMLS units. The first three of these units started up in 2019. We also 
lease regasification capacity on Elba Island with contracted capacity of 
11.6 mtpa.
We have 13.1 mtpa of contracted capacity in the Lake Charles 
regasification terminal in Louisiana. We are also evaluating a project to 
convert the existing regasification facility owned by Energy Transfer into a 
liquefaction plant in which we would have capacity rights. In March 2019, 
we signed a project framework agreement with Energy Transfer to 
advance the proposed Lake Charles LNG export project towards a 
potential FID. The Lake Charles LNG export project, is planned to have 
liquefaction capacity of 16.45 million tons per annum and is a 50:50 
venture between the two parties.
Trading and Supply
Through our Shell Energy organisation, we market a portion of our share 
of equity production of LNG and trade LNG volumes around the world 
through our hubs in the UK, Dubai and Singapore. We also sell trucked 
LNG in China, Singapore and Europe.
Other gas and power activities
Bolivia
We hold a 37 .5% participating interest in the Caipipendi block, where we 
mainly produce from the Margarita and Huacaya gas-condensate fields. 
We are also exploring further in the Caipipendi block. We also have a 
25% interest in the Petrobras-operated Tarija XX West block where we 
produce from the Itaú field. We have the rights to explore and further 
develop the onshore Huacareta block (Shell interest 100% during 
exploration), and we are currently exploring there. In August 2019, we 
acquired a 15% participating interest in the Repsol-operated Iniguazu 
exploration Block. In May 2019, we relinquished the La Vertiente Block 
to the government.
China
We jointly develop and produce from the onshore Changbei tight-gas 
field under a PSC with China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). 
In 2016, we completed the Changbei I development programme under 
the PSC and subsequently handed over the production operatorship to 
CNPC. In December 2017 , we took the FID on the Changbei II Phase 
1 project. We started drilling activity in early 2019, and remain the 
operator of Changbei II.
Changbei Natural Gas Processing Facility, China.
Strategic Report

49
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
India
We had a 30% interest in the producing oil and gas field Panna/Mukta 
and a 30% interest in the Mid Tapti and South Tapti fields. Both licences 
expired in December 2019 and operatorship was transferred to Oil & 
Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC).
In 2019, we divested our 10% interest in Mahanagar Gas Limited, 
a natural gas distribution company in Mumbai.
Trading and Supply
Trading and Supply also markets and trades natural gas, power and 
carbon-emission rights in multiple markets in North and South America, 
Europe, Asia and Australia, of which a portion includes equity volumes 
from our upstream operations.
We have set up a power marketing and trading business in Japan which 
began trading in 2019.
In November 2019, we acquired ERM Power, one of Australia’s leading 
commercial and industrial electricity retailers, which builds on Shell Energy 
Australia’s existing gas marketing and trading capability.
Other
We have a 17 .9% share in the West African Gas Pipeline Company 
Limited which owns and operates a 678-kilometre pipeline transporting 
gas from Nigeria to Ghana, Benin and Togo.
We have a 40% interest in a gas pipeline connecting Uruguay to 
Argentina.
We have a 35% interest in Cyprus block 12, holding the Aphrodite 
discovery which is currently under appraisal, a 60% interest in two 
deep-water blocks in Colombia, interests in offshore blocks in 
Myanmar and one exploration block licence in Namibia.
We also have interests in Gabon and Morocco.
New Energies
Our New Energies business explores emerging opportunities linked to 
the energy transition and invests in those where we see sufficient value. 
We focus on power, from generation to electric-vehicle charging to 
integration with Trading, as well as on new fuels for transport, including 
advanced biofuels and hydrogen.
The New Energies portfolio is being built through organic growth and 
acquisitions. Most of these opportunities are in sectors that are different 
from Shell’s existing oil and gas businesses, but have some similarities 
and/or adjacencies to our Downstream and gas and power trading 
businesses. Shell-controlled New Energies companies are subject 
to the Shell Control Framework. Some are not yet in full compliance 
with the Shell Control Framework and we are working to bring them 
into compliance with this framework in a fit-for-purpose manner.
Shell Greenlots’ EV charging, Columbus USA.
Power
We began supplying residential customers in the UK for the first time when 
we acquired First Utility in 2018. We rebranded First Utility to Shell Energy 
Retail in 2019. In November 2019, Shell Energy Retail completed the 
acquisition of Hudson Energy Supply UK Limited, which trades as Green 
Star Energy for consumers and Hudson Energy for businesses. 
Shell Energy Retail supplies 100% renewable electricity via purchase 
of certificates, as well as natural gas and smart home technology to 
more than 900 thousand homes in the UK.
We own a majority interest in GI Energy, a US company that focuses on 
the integration of distributed energy resources. We refer to distributed 
energy when customers begin to generate their own power through solar 
panels or wind turbines, store it and redistribute it back into the grid.
In 2019, we acquired German company sonnen, which provides battery 
storage systems to homes with solar panels. In 2019, we also acquired 
energy technology firm Limejump which provides energy storage to 
smaller renewable energy generators, allowing them to sell clean 
power in real-time to the National Grid.
Wind turbines at Noordzee Wind Farm, Netherlands.
Strategic Report

50
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
INTEGRATED GAS continued
In the Netherlands we are part of the Blauwwind consortium (Shell 
interest 20%) which is developing the Borssele III and IV offshore wind 
farms that are designed to have a total installed capacity of 731.5 MW, 
enough to power about 825,000 Dutch homes. We have a 50% interest 
in the NoordzeeWind joint venture, an offshore wind power project in the 
Netherlands with total installed capacity of 108 MW.
In the USA, we have developed and become co-owners of four onshore 
wind projects, from California to Texas. In December 2018, we formed 
two 50:50 joint ventures: with EDF Renewables to build wind farms off the 
New Jersey coast; and with EDPR to build wind farms off Massachusetts. 
In November 2019 Massachusetts state authorities selected our JV with 
EDPR to develop and supply 804 MW of clean, renewable energy from 
offshore wind to electricity customers in the state.
Solar panels at Silicon Ranch, West Virginia, USA.
We own a 43.1% interest in Silicon Ranch Corporation, a developer, 
owner and operator of solar energy assets in the USA.
In 2019, we acquired a 49% interest in Cleantech Solar, which provides 
solar power to commercial and industrial customers across South-East 
Asia and India. In 2019, we also acquired a 49% interest in ESCO Pacific, 
a utility scale solar developer and long-term asset management company 
in Australia. 
In 2019, we completed the acquisition of EOLFI, a French renewable 
energies developer specialising in floating offshore wind projects.
Through our NewMotion subsidiary, Shell is developing other flexible 
solutions for EV drivers to charge their vehicles at home or at work. 
NewMotion operates around 50 thousand private electric charge 
points for homes and businesses in the Netherlands, Germany, 
France and the UK.
In 2019, we acquired Greenlots, a California-based company that 
provides EV charging posts, charging network software and grid services 
across the USA and has growing business in Canada, Thailand, Malaysia 
and Singapore.
New fuels for transport
In Bangalore, India, we have built a demonstration plant that is designed 
to turn waste into petrol or diesel that can power cars.
In Oregon, USA, we are developing a facility to produce renewable 
natural gas (RNG) from organic waste through a process called 
anaerobic digestion.
We are part of joint ventures and alliances that have built hydrogen 
filling stations for passenger cars in the USA (California), Canada, 
Germany and the UK and announced plans to build several stations 
in the Netherlands. In California, Shell is also developing filling stations 
for hydrogen trucks, in co-operation with Toyota, Kenworth and the 
Port of Los Angeles.
INTEGRATED GAS DATA TABLE
LNG liquefaction volumes
Million tonnes
2019 2018 2017
Australia 12.5 12.1 11.1 [A]
Brunei 1.6 1.6 1.6
Egypt 0.4 0.3 0.2
Malaysia – 0.6 [B] 1.3 [B]
Nigeria 5.3 5.1 5.2
Norway 0.1 0.1 0.1
Oman 2.6 2.4 2.0
Peru 0.9 0.8 0.9
Qatar 2.5 2.3 2.4
Russia 3.0 3.1 3.1
Trinidad and Tobago 6.7 5.8 5.3
United States 0.1 – –
Total 35.6 34.3 33.2
[A] I ncludes LNG liquefaction volumes related to our share in equity securities of Woodside, that were disposed of in 2017 .
[B]
 I
ncludes LNG liquefaction volumes related to our share in equity securities of Malaysia LNG Tiga, that were disposed of in 2018. 
Strategic Report

51
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
LNG AND GTL PLANTS AT DECEMBER 31, 2019
LNG liquefaction plants in operation
Asset Location
Shell 
interest (%)
100% capacity 
(mtpa) [A]
Europe
Norway Gasnor Bergen 100.0 0.3
Asia
Brunei Brunei LNG Lumut 25.0 7. 6
Oman Oman LNG Sur 30.0 7.1
Qalhat LNG Sur 11.0 [B] 3.7
Qatar Qatargas 4 Ras Laffan 30.0 7. 8
Russia Sakhalin LNG Prigorodnoye 2 7. 5 9.6
Oceania
Australia Australia North West Shelf Karratha 16.7 16.9
Gorgon LNG Barrow Island 25.0 15.6
Prelude Browse Basin 67. 5 3.6
Queensland Curtis LNG T1 Curtis Island 50.0 4.3
Queensland Curtis LNG T2 Curtis Island 97. 5 4.3
Africa
Egypt Egyptian LNG T1 Idku 35.5 3.6
Egyptian LNG T2 Idku 38.0 3.6
Nigeria Nigeria LNG Bonny 25.6 24.1
South America
Peru Peru LNG Pampa Melchorita 20.0 4.5
Trinidad and Tobago Atlantic LNG T1 Point Fortin 46.0 3.0
Atlantic LNG T2/T3 Point Fortin 5 7. 5 6.6
Atlantic LNG T4 Point Fortin 51.1 5.2
[A] A s reported by the operator.
[B]
 I
nterest, or part of the interest, is held via indirect shareholding.
LNG liquefaction plants under construction
Asset Location
Shell 
interest (%)
100% capacity 
(mtpa)
North America
Canada LNG Canada T1-2 Kitimat 40.0 14.0
GTL plants in operation
Asset Location
Shell 
interest (%)
100% capacity 
(b/d)
Asia
Malaysia Shell MDS Bintulu 72.0 14,700
Qatar Pearl Ras Laffan 100.0 140,000
Strategic Report

52
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
UPSTREAM
Key statistics
$ million, except where indicated
2019 2018 2017
Segment earnings 4,195 6,798 1,551
Including:
Revenue (including inter-segment sales) 46,413 47, 7 3 3 40,192
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 379 285 623
Interest and other income 2,180 600 1,188
Operating expenses [A] 12,043 12,157 12,656
Exploration 2,073 1,132 1,804
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 17, 0 0 3 13,006 17, 3 0 3
Taxation charge/(credit) 5,954 8,791 2,409
Capital expenditure 10,074 12,447 11,389
Cash capital expenditure [A] 10,277 12,582 11,670
Capital investment [A] 11,075 12,785 13,160
Oil and gas production available for sale (thousand boe/d) 2,743 2,709 2,777
[A] S ee “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” on pages 279-280.
OVERVIEW
Our Upstream business explores for and extracts crude oil, natural gas 
and natural gas liquids. It also markets and transports oil and gas, and 
operates infrastructure necessary to deliver them to market. We are also 
involved in the extraction of bitumen from mined oil sands and its 
conversion into synthetic crude oil.
BUSINESS CONDITIONS
Global oil demand grew by 1.0 million barrels per day (b/d), or 1.0%, to 
100.3 million b/d in 2019, according to the International Energy Agency’s 
Oil Market Report published in January 2020. Brent crude oil, an 
international benchmark, traded between $53 per barrel (/b) and $75/b 
in 2019, ending the year at the lower price of $67 /b. It averaged $64/b 
for the year, $7 /b lower than in 2018. 
On a yearly average basis, West Texas Intermediate crude oil traded at a 
$7 /b discount to Brent in 2019, compared with $6/b in 2018. The discount 
remained broadly unchanged from 2018, reflecting continued constrained 
pipeline capacity from the landlocked Cushing storage hub to the US Gulf 
Coast, against a backdrop of growing supply to the hub. US crude oil 
exports increased further to about 3 million b/d in 2019, up by 1 million 
b/d from 2018. This helped to limit widening of the price differential 
between Brent and WTI.
Global gas demand is estimated to have grown by about 2.4% in 2019, 
which is in line with the annual growth rate of 2.5% observed since the 
start of the century. Robust demand growth in power generation and 
industry was driven by attractive regional spot gas prices that incentivised 
switching away from competing fuels such as coal and oil. In the key 
regional markets of North America, Europe, and Asia-Pacific, attractive 
prices have been caused mainly by ample gas supply growth.
In the USA, the natural gas price at the Henry Hub averaged $2.5 per 
million British thermal units (MMBtu) in 2019, 19% lower than in 2018, 
and traded in a range of $2.0-4.1/MMBtu. There was some downward 
pressure on prices due to strong gas supply growth of about 8 billion cubic 
feet per day (cf/d), which averaged 10% higher than 2018. Gas supply 
growth was, in part, driven by a growth of associated gas from oil fields, 
helped by oil prices above $50/b, and by new gas pipeline capacity. 
Gas prices found support from: demand growth driven by below-normal 
storage inventory levels; an increase in usage of power for cooling due to 
warmer than normal weather in the second half of the year; completion of 
LNG liquefaction projects; increased exports to Mexico by pipeline; and 
US industrial growth. 
In Europe, natural gas prices were lower than in 2018. The average price 
at the UK National Balancing Point (NBP) was 43% lower in 2019. At the 
main continental gas trading hubs – in the Netherlands, Belgium and 
Germany – prices were also lower, as reflected by weaker Dutch Title 
Transfer Facility (TTF) prices. European gas prices were lower due to: 
the rise in LNG volume diverted from the Asia-Pacific region caused 
by weaker Asia-Pacific demand growth; robust supply of pipeline gas, 
particularly from Russia; well-filled gas storage inventories; competition 
with renewables in power generation; and mild weather.
  S ee “Market overview” on pages 37-39.
PRODUCTION AVAILABLE FOR SALE
In 2019, production was 1,001 million boe, or 2,743 thousand boe/d, 
compared with 989 million boe, or 2,709 thousand boe/d in 2018. Liquids 
production increased by 8% and natural gas production decreased by 9% 
compared with 2018.
Increases were mainly from new field start-ups and the continuing ramp-up 
of existing fields (around 190 thousand boe/d), in particular in the Permian 
Basin in the USA, in the US Gulf of Mexico (Appomattox, Stones and 
Ursa) and in Brazil (Lula and Berbigao). Further increases from moving 
Salym from IG to Upstream (around 60 thousand boe/d). Decreases were 
mainly from divestments (around 90 thousand boe/d), field declines and 
performance maintenance (around 100 thousand boe/d).
EARNINGS 2019-2018
Segment earnings in 2019 were $4,195 million, which included a net 
charge of $1,930 million related to impairments, primarily in the US 
Appalachia unconventional gas assets and a drilling rig joint venture, 
partly offset by a gain of $1,609 million on sale of assets, mainly in 
Denmark and the US Gulf of Mexico. 
Segment earnings in 2018 were $6,798 million, which included a net gain 
of $23 million. This included a net gain of $886 million on sale of assets, 
mainly related to our divestments in Iraq, Malaysia, Oman and Ireland, 
and a gain of $149 million related to the fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives. These gains were partly offset by a charge of 
$561 million related to the impact of the weakening Brazilian real on a 
deferred tax position, a net impairment charge of $350 million mainly 
related to assets in North America and deep-water rig joint ventures, 
and a charge of $90 million related to the release of historic 
currency differences.
Strategic Report

53
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Excluding the net charge described above, segment earnings in 2019 
were $4,744 million, compared with $6,775 million in 2018. Earnings 
excluding the net charge were adversely impacted by lower realised oil 
and gas prices, higher depreciation as well as higher well write-offs mainly 
in Albania and Kazakhstan, partly offset by higher sales volumes 
associated with the timing of liftings.
EARNINGS 2018-2017
Segment earnings in 2018 were $6,798 million, which included a net gain 
of $23 million as described above.
Segment earnings in 2017 were $1,551 million, which included a net 
charge of $1,540 million. This net charge included impairment charges 
of $2,557 million, mainly related to divestments of our oil sands interests 
in Canada, onshore assets in Gabon and our interest in the Corrib gas 
project in Ireland. The net charge also involved $1,089 million related to 
US tax reform legislation, and redundancy and restructuring charges of 
$163 million. These charges were partly offset by gains on divestments 
of $1,463 million, mainly related to a package of UK North Sea assets, 
a credit of $772 million mainly reflecting the release of tax liabilities, 
and other items with a net positive impact of $34 million.
Excluding the net charges described above, segment earnings in 2018 
were $6,775 million compared with $3,091 million in 2017 . Earnings 
benefited from higher realised oil and gas prices (around $4,770 million) 
and lower well write-offs (around $400 million). These impacts were 
partly offset by the impact of movements in deferred tax positions (around 
$1,520 million) and lower production volumes (around $510 million).
CASH CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND CAPITAL INVESTMENT
Cash capital expenditure in 2019 was $10.3 billion, compared with 
$12.6 billion in 2018. Capital investment in 2019 was $11.1 billion, 
compared with $12.8 billion in 2018.
The lower cash capital expenditure and capital investments in 2019 
reflected our continuing efforts to improve capital efficiency by pursuing 
lower cost development solutions, the completion of the Appomattox 
project, IFRS16 implementation effects and the 2018 impacts of relative 
higher spend for lease renewals in Nigeria and additional investments 
in exploration acreage.
PORTFOLIO AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
We took the following key portfolio decisions during 2019:
 ■ In Argentina we won two exploration blocks in the deep-water bid 
round (Shell interest 60%);
 ■ Also in Argentina, we agreed a 50:50 partnering with Equinor to jointly 
acquire Schlumberger’s 49% interest in the Bandurria Sur block located 
in the Vaca Muerta basin (Shell interest 24.5%);
 ■ In Brazil, we announced the Final Investment Decision (FID) to contract 
the Mero 2 floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel 
to be deployed at the Mero field offshore Santos Basin in Brazil;
 ■ In Brunei, we acquired the deep-water exploration Block CA-1 (Shell 
interest 86.95%). The deal is expected to complete in 2020;
 ■ In Egypt, we announced the intention to sell our onshore upstream 
assets in the country; 
 ■ Also in Egypt, we were awarded onshore concessions with 100% Shell 
interest (West El Fayum, South East Horus, South Abu Sennan) and one 
producing concession extension (Bed 2-17); 
 ■ Also in Egypt, we were awarded two concessions in the Red Sea bid 
round: Block 4 (Shell interest 70%) and Block 3 as the sole operator. 
This is awaiting ratification; 
 ■ In Kazakhstan, we decided not to progress the Kalamkas-Khazar 
projects. These projects were not deemed competitive compared to 
other opportunities in our global portfolio;
 ■ In Malaysia, we took FID on the second phase of the Malikai deep 
water development (Shell interest 35%);
 ■ In Nigeria, we announced the release of Invitation to Tender (ITT) 
to contractors for the development of the Bonga South West Aparo 
(BSWA) oil field;
 ■ In Oman, our partnership with Oman Oil Company Exploration 
production to explore for oil and gas in Block 42 was ratified (Shell 
interest 50%); 
 ■ Also in Oman, we signed an Exploration & Production Sharing 
Agreement for Block 55 in the southeast of the Sultanate (Shell interest 
100%). This agreement is awaiting ratification via Royal Decree;
 ■ In São Tomé and Príncipe, in the Gulf of Guinea, we acquired interests 
in Block 6 (Shell interest 20%) and Block 11 (Shell interest 30%) 
exploration licences; 
 ■ In South Africa, we entered the frontier deep-water Cape Basin (Shell 
interest 40%) and a second block adjacent to our existing acreage in 
the Namibian Orange Basin (Shell interest 45%); 
 ■ In the UK, we announced FID to export gas and oil from the Pierce 
field, which is located 165 miles east of Aberdeen (Shell interest 
92.5%);
 ■ In the US Gulf of Mexico, we announced FID to develop the PowerNap 
field (Shell interest 100%); 
 ■ Also in the US Gulf of Mexico, we acquired 77 blocks across multiple 
plays in the Gulf of Mexico Lease Sale 252; and 
 ■ In the USA, we made a significant discovery at the Blacktip prospect in 
the deep-water US Gulf of Mexico (Shell interest 52.4%). Blacktip is our 
second significant discovery in the Perdido Corridor and is part of a 
continuing exploration strategy to add competitive deep-water options 
to extend our heartlands. 
In the Netherlands, the Dutch government decided to halt Groningen 
production by 2022, eight years earlier than initially planned.
We achieved the following operational milestones in 2019:
 ■ In deep water off Brazil, we announced first production from two of our 
FPSOs: P-67 , in Lula North (Shell interest 23%, post-unitisation); and 
P-68, in Berbigão (Shell interest 25%, subject to unitisation); 
 ■ In Italy, the Tempa Rossa oil field started up in December 2019 (Shell 
interest 25%);
 ■ In Malaysia, we completed phase 2 of the Gumusut-Kakap deep-water 
project, drilling four additional subsea wells (Shell interest 29%); 
 ■ In Malaysia offshore Sarawak, we produced first oil and gas from 
the E6 field in SK308 PSC (Shell interest 50%). We also produced 
first gas from the Larak field in the SK408 PSC (Shell interest 30%);
 ■ In the US Gulf of Mexico, we announced first production from 
Appomattox (Shell interest 79%). It is the first commercial discovery 
brought into production in the deep-water Norphlet formation in 
the US Gulf of Mexico. 
We continued to divest selected assets during 2019, including:
 ■ In Canada, we sold our Foothills sour gas plants and the gas fields 
which feed them; 
 ■ In Denmark, we completed the sale of our 36.8% non-operating 
interest in our joint venture the Danish Underground Consortium, 
for $1.9 billion;
 ■ In Norway, we sold 10% of our 12% interest in Nyhamna gas plant;
 ■ In the US Gulf of Mexico, we sold our 22.45% non-operating interest 
in the Caesar Tonga asset; 
 ■ Also in the USA, we sold our non-Shell operated interest in 
the Haynesville shale gas formation in Northern Louisiana; and
 ■ Also in the USA, we sold our Norphlet deep-water gathering 
pipeline system in the US Gulf of Mexico.
Strategic Report

54
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
BUSINESS AND PROPERTY
Our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are involved in all aspects 
of upstream activities, including matters such as land tenure, entitlement 
to produced hydrocarbons, production rates, royalties, pricing, 
environmental protection, social impact, exports, taxes and 
foreign exchange.
The conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under which oil and 
gas interests are held vary from country to country. In almost all cases 
outside North America, the legal agreements are generally granted by, 
or entered into with, a government, state-owned company, government-
run oil and gas company or agency, and the exploration risk usually rests 
with the independent oil and gas company. In North America, these 
agreements may also be with private parties that own mineral rights. 
Of these agreements, the following are most relevant to our interests:
 ■ Licences (or concessions), which entitle the holder to explore for 
hydrocarbons and exploit any commercial discoveries. Under a 
licence, the holder bears the risk of exploration, development and 
production activities, and is responsible for financing these activities. 
In principle, the licence holder is entitled to the totality of production 
less any royalties in kind. The government, state-owned company or 
government-run oil and gas company may sometimes enter into a joint 
arrangement as a participant, sharing the rights and obligations of the 
licence but usually without sharing the exploration risk. In a few cases, 
the state-owned company, government-run oil and gas company or 
agency has an option to purchase a certain share of production;
 ■ Lease agreements, which are typically used in North America and 
are usually governed by terms similar to licences. Participants may 
include governments or private entities. Royalties are either paid in 
cash or in kind; and
 ■ PSCs entered into with a government, state-owned company or 
government-run oil and gas company. PSCs generally oblige the 
independent oil and gas company, as contractor, to provide all 
the financing and bear the risk of exploration, development and 
production activities in exchange for a share of the production. Usually, 
this share consists of a fixed or variable part that is reserved for the 
recovery of the contractor’s cost (cost oil). The remaining production is 
split with the government, state-owned company or government-run oil 
and gas company on a fixed or volume/revenue-dependent basis. In 
some cases, the government, state-owned company or government-run 
oil and gas company will participate in the rights and obligations of the 
contractor and will share in the costs of development and production. 
Such participation can be across the venture or on a field-by-field 
basis. Additionally, as the price of oil or gas increases above certain 
predetermined levels, the independent oil and gas company’s 
entitlement share of production normally decreases, and vice 
versa. Accordingly, its interest in a project may not be the same 
as its entitlement.
Europe
Italy
We have a 39% interest in the Val d’Agri producing concession, 
operated by ENI.
We also have a 25% interest in the Tempa Rossa producing 
concession operated by Total.
Netherlands
Shell and ExxonMobil are 50:50 shareholders in Nederlandse Aardolie 
Maatschappij B.V. (NAM). An important part of NAM’s gas production 
comes from the onshore Groningen gas field, in which NAM holds a 
60% interest. The remaining 40% interest is held by EBN, a Dutch 
government entity.
Production from the Groningen field induces earthquakes that cause 
damage to houses and other buildings and structures in the region. This 
has led to complaints and claims for compensation for damage from the 
local community. NAM is working with the Dutch government and other 
stakeholders to fulfil its obligations to the residents of the area, which 
includes compensation for damage caused by above-mentioned 
earthquakes.
Since 2013, the Dutch Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate (the 
Minister) has set an annual production level for the Groningen field taking 
into account all interests, including safety of the residents, security of 
supply in the domestic gas market as well as supply commitments in EU 
member states. Production in the gas year 2018-2019 (ending October 1, 
2019) was capped at 19.4 billion cubic metres; actual production in this 
period was 17 .5 billion cubic metres.
In June 2018, NAM’s shareholders and the Dutch government signed a 
Heads of Agreement (HoA) to reduce production from Groningen and to 
ensure the financial robustness of NAM to fulfil its obligations. In the HoA, 
NAM’s shareholders have agreed not to declare dividends for 2018 and 
2019. Dividend payments in 2020 and beyond will only be done if a 
solvency ratio of 25% is reached. In September 2018, detailed 
agreements were signed to further implement the HoA. As part of these 
agreements, Shell guarantees NAM’s payment obligations vis-à-vis the 
Dutch government in relation to earthquake-related damages and costs of 
strengthening houses, up to a maximum of 30%. This maximum equates to 
Shell’s indirect interest in the Groningen production system.
In September 2019, the government issued an update announcing that it 
was able to reduce Groningen production faster, stopping production in 
2022, eight years earlier than initially planned. Negotiations are ongoing 
between the government and the NAM shareholders to discuss the 
compensation payable by the government to NAM in order to restore 
the balance of the package of arrangements laid down in the 2018 HoA. 
NAM also has a 60% interest in the Schoonebeek oil field and operates 
25 other hydrocarbon production licences onshore and offshore in the 
North Sea.
UPSTREAM continued
Strategic Report

55
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Norway
We are a partner in 34 production licences on the Norwegian continental 
shelf. We are the operator in 14 of these, of which two are producing: the 
Knarr field (Shell interest 45%), and the Ormen Lange gas field (Shell 
interest 17 .8%). We have interests in the producing fields Troll, Kvitebjørn, 
Sindre and Valemon, where we are not the operator.
UK
We operate a significant number of our interests on the UK continental 
shelf under a 50:50 joint-venture agreement with ExxonMobil. In addition 
to our oil and gas production from North Sea fields, we have various 
interests in the Atlantic Margin area where we are not the operator, 
principally in the West of Shetland area (Clair, Shell interest 28%), 
and Schiehallion (Shell interest approximately 45%).
Brent decommissioning using Allseas Pioneering Spirit, the world’s largest construction vessel.
In June 2019 the “Pioneering Spirit” vessel safely completed the single-lift 
removal of the 25,000-tonne Brent Bravo topside from the North Sea. 
Brent Bravo is the second of four platforms, after Brent Delta, to be 
decommissioned and removed from the Brent oil and gas field. The UK 
Government initiated consultation with the other signatories of the OSPAR 
Convention on whether to issue derogations for leaving in-situ the footings 
of the Brent Alpha steel jacket and each of the gravity-based concrete 
installations of Brent Bravo, Brent Charlie and Brent Delta.
In October 2019, we announced FID on a project to enable the export of 
gas and oil from the Pierce field, which lies 165 miles east of Aberdeen. It 
is a joint venture between Shell (92.52%) and Ithaca (7 .48%). The project 
includes modifying the FPSO vessel, the Haewene Brim, owned and 
operated by Bluewater. Development is expected to take place between 
2020 and 2021 and has Oil and Gas Authority (OGA) approval.
Rest of Europe
We also have interests in Albania, Bulgaria and Germany.
Asia (including the Middle East and Russia)
Brunei
Shell and the Brunei government are 50:50 shareholders in Brunei Shell 
Petroleum Company Sendirian Berhad (BSP). BSP has long-term oil and 
gas concession rights onshore and offshore Brunei, and sells most of its 
gas production to Brunei LNG Sendirian Berhad (see “Integrated Gas” 
on page 47), with the remainder (12% in 2019) sold in the domestic market.
In addition to our interest in BSP, we have a 35% non-operating interest in 
the Block B concession, where gas and condensate are produced from the 
Maharaja Lela field.
We also have non-operating interest in the deep-water exploration Block 
CA-2 (Shell interest 12.5%), under PSC.
A sale and purchase agreement was signed in October 2019 for the 
acquisition of Total E&P Deep Offshore Borneo B.V. and all of its interests 
in the deep-water exploration Block CA-1 (interest 86.95%), under PSC. 
The deal is expected to complete in 2020.
Over the course of 2019, we have relinquished our interests in the Block 
A concession (Shell interest 53.9%) following the drilling of the Rapong 
exploration well. Linked to the relinquishment of Block A, we have also 
relinquished our interests the adjacent Block N (Shell interest 50%).
Iraq
We have a 44% interest in the Basrah Gas Company, which gathers, 
treats and processes associated gas that was previously being flared 
from the Rumaila, West Qurna 1 and Zubair fields. The processed gas 
and associated products, such as condensate and LPG, are sold to the 
domestic market. Any surplus condensate and LPG is exported. In 2019, 
Basrah Gas Company processed on average around 850 million scf/d 
of associated gas into dry gas, condensate and LPG.
Kazakhstan
We are the joint operator of the onshore Karachaganak oil and 
condensate field (Shell interest 29.3%), where we have a licence 
to the end of 2037 . 
We have an interest in the North Caspian Sea Production Sharing 
Agreement (Shell interest 16.8%) which includes the Kashagan field in 
the Kazakh sector of the Caspian Sea. The North Caspian Operating 
Company is the operator. This shallow-water field covers an area of 
around 3,400 square kilometres. Phase 1 development of the field is 
expected to lead to plateau oil production capacity of about 63 thousand 
boe/d by 2020 (Shell interest), with the possibility of increases with 
additional phases of development. 
We have a 7 .4% interest in Caspian Pipeline Consortium, which owns 
and operates an oil pipeline running from the Caspian Sea to the 
Black Sea across parts of Kazakhstan and Russia.
Operators at the Karachaganak field in Kazakhstan.
In 2019 we made the decision not to progress the Kalamkas-Khazar 
projects. These projects were not competitive enough compared to other 
opportunities in Shell’s global portfolio.
Strategic Report

56
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
UPSTREAM continued
Malaysia
We explore for and produce oil and gas offshore Sabah and Sarawak 
under 16 PSCs, in which our interests range from 20% to 85%.
Offshore Sabah, we operate two producing oil fields. These include 
the Gumusut-Kakap deep-water field (Shell interest 29%), and the 
Malikai deep-water field (Shell interest 35%). In August 2019, phase 2 
development of the Gumusut-Kakap field successfully achieved first oil and 
is expected to add 50 thousand boe/d of extra capacity (Shell interest). 
In December 2019, we also took FID on phase 2 of the Malikai project. 
The project involves the drilling of two additional oil producing wells and 
four water injection wells to enhance Malikai’s expected recoverable oil 
volumes. We also have a 21% interest in the Siakap North-Petai deep-
water field and a 30% interest in the Kebabangan field, both operated 
by third parties. Additionally, we have exploration interests in Blocks SB-J, 
SB-G, SB-N, SB-3G, ND-6 and ND-7 PSCs.
Offshore Sarawak, we are the operator of eight producing gas fields 
(Shell interest 50%). In June 2019, the Block SK8 PSC expired (Shell equity 
37 .5%). In 2019, the abandonment of depleted wells for Serai field (Shell 
interest 37 .5%) and Saderi field (Shell interest 37 .5%) were completed. In 
December 2019, we signed a binding Heads of Agreement (HOA) for the 
extension of the MLNG PSC. Under the terms of the HOA, Shell will 
continue to be the PSC operator for F6 and F23 hubs and retains the 
operatorship of E8, F13 East and F13 West fields. Shell will also be the 
operator for the new exploration acreage and new fields (F22, F27 , 
Selasih), which will now be part of the MLNG Extension PSC. The key 
terms in the HOA will be further detailed in the definitive agreements 
expected to be signed in 2020. Nearly all the gas produced offshore 
Sarawak is supplied to Malaysia LNG and to our gas-to-liquids plant in 
Bintulu. See “Integrated Gas” on page 47 .
In May 2019, first oil and gas were successfully achieved from the E6 field 
in SK308 PSC (Shell interest 50%) where the field is the first carbonate thin 
oil-rim and gas development in Malaysia. First gas was also successfully 
achieved from the Larak field in the SK408 PSC (Shell interest 30%) in 
December 2019.
We also have interests in the Amended 2011 Baram Delta EOR PSC 
(Shell interest 40%) and in Block SK-307 PSC (Shell interest 50%), and 
exploration interests in Blocks SK318, SK320, SK408 and SK319.
Malikai deep-water platform, Malaysia.
Oman
We have a 34% interest in Petroleum Development Oman (PDO); the 
Omani government has a 60% interest. PDO is the operator of more than 
200 oil fields, mainly located in central and southern Oman, over an area 
of 90,874 square kilometres. The concession expires in 2044.
In October, we signed an Exploration & Production Sharing Agreement 
for Block 55 in the southeast of the Sultanate. Oman Shell now has a 
100% working interest and operatorship of Block 55 with a total area 
of 7 ,564 square kilometres. The agreement includes a work programme 
of regional studies, seismic acquisition and other potential exploration 
activities. This agreement is awaiting ratification via Royal Decree.
Russia
We have a 50% interest in Salym Petroleum Development N.V., the joint 
venture with Gazprom Neft, developing the Salym fields in western 
Siberia, Khanty Mansiysk Autonomous District. 
We and Gazprom Neft each have a 50% interest in Khanty-Mansiysk 
Petroleum Alliance VOF partnership through which Shell is a holder 
of 50% of shares in JSC Khanty-Mansiysk Petroleum Alliance.
In June 2019, we signed an agreement with Gazprom Neft on the 
future sales and purchase of the 50% participation interest in LLC 
Meretoyahaneftegaz. This transaction is expected to be completed 
in 2020.
With effect from January 1, 2019, Salym and Khanty-Mansiysk Petroleum 
Alliance VOF partnership is reported in the Upstream segment. 
Comparative information has not been restated.
As a result of European Union and US sanctions prohibiting certain 
defined oil and gas activities in Russia, we suspended our support to 
Salym and Khanty-Mansiysk Petroleum Alliance VOF partnership in 
relation to shale oil activities since 2014. Also, Salym and Khanty-
Mansiysk Petroleum Alliance VOF partnership also suspended any 
of their shale oil-related activities since 2014 as well. 
United Arab Emirates
In Abu Dhabi, we have a 15% interest in the licence of ADNOC Gas 
Processing, which expires in 2028. ADNOC Gas Processing exports 
propane, butane and heavier-liquid hydrocarbons, which it extracts from 
the wet gas associated with the oil produced by ADNOC Onshore.
Rest of Asia
We also have interests in Jordan, Kuwait, the Philippines and Turkey.
Africa
Egypt
We have a 50% interest in the Badr Petroleum Company (BAPETCO), 
a self-operated joint venture between Shell and the Egyptian General 
Petroleum Corporation (EGPC). BAPETCO onshore operations are in the 
Western Desert where we have an interest in ten oil and gas producing 
concessions, as well as two exploration concessions (North East Obaiyed, 
North Matruh). In October 2019, we announced our intention to sell our 
onshore upstream assets in Egypt. In December 2019, we were awarded 
onshore concessions with 100% Shell interest (West El Fayum, South East 
Horus, South Abu Sennan) and one producing concession extension 
(Bed 2-17). 
Strategic Report

57
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
We have a 25% interest in the Burullus Gas Company (Burullus), a 
self-operated joint venture between Shell, EGPC and PETRONAS. Burullus 
operates the West Delta Deep Marine concession (Shell interest 50%), 
which supplies gas to both the domestic market and the Egyptian LNG 
plant (see “Integrated Gas” on page 47).
We have a 60% interest in the development rights over the Harmattan 
Deep discovery and in the Notus discovery offshore the Nile Delta. 
We have interests in two gas-producing areas offshore the Nile Delta. 
We have a 40% interest in the Rashid Petroleum Company, a self-
operated joint venture between Shell, EGPC and Edison, which 
operates the Rosetta concession (Shell interest 80%). 
With effect from January 1, 2020, our interest in the offshore Nile Delta 
will be reported in the Integrated Gas segment. Comparative information 
will not be restated. 
Nigeria
Our share of production, onshore and offshore, in Nigeria was 266 
thousand boe/d in 2019, compared with 255 thousand boe/d in 2018. 
Security issues, sabotage and crude oil theft in the Niger Delta remained 
significant challenges in 2019.
Onshore
The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) is 
the operator of a joint venture (Shell interest 30%) that has 17 Niger Delta 
onshore oil mining leases (OML).
SPDC commenced litigation against the Federal Government (FGN), in 
the domestic court to challenge the non-renewal of OML 11. In August 
2019, the Court ruled in favour of SPDC affirming that the SPDC JV has 
fulfilled its obligations under the law for the renewal of OML 11 and 
ordered the FGN to renew OML 11 for 20 years. In December 2019, the 
court further refused to grant an application by the FGN to suspend the 
implementation of the judgement. Though the FGN has appealed the 
decision of the Court, SPDC continues to operate the block supported 
by the judgement in its favour which remains in force and unimpaired. 
SPDC supplies gas to Nigeria LNG Ltd (see “Integrated Gas” on 
page 47) mainly through its Gbaran-Ubie and Soku projects.
In 2019, we took the FID on Soku NAG Compressor 2 and Gbaran Single 
Wells Hookup (Shell interest 30%).
Offshore
Our main offshore deep-water activities are carried out by Shell Nigeria 
Exploration and Production Company Limited (SNEPCO, Shell interest 
100%). SNEPCO has interests in four deep-water blocks, three of which 
are under PSC terms: Bonga and Erha. SNEPCO operates OMLs 118 
(including the Bonga field FPSO, Shell interest 55%) and 135 (Bolia and 
Doro, Shell interest 55%) and has a 43.8% non-operating interest in 
OML133 (including the Erha FPSO). Separately, SNEPCO holds a 50% 
non-operating interest in oil prospecting licence (OPL) 245 (Zabazaba, 
Etan) under a production sharing agreement (PSA).
Authorities in various countries are investigating our investment in Nigerian 
oil block OPL 245 and the 2011 settlement of litigation pertaining to that 
block. See Note 25 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on 
pages 235-237 .
SPDC also has three shallow-water licences (OMLs 74, 77 and 79) and 
a 40% interest in the non-Shell-operated Sunlink joint venture that has 
one shallow-water licence (OML 144); all four OMLs expire in 2034.
In our Nigerian operations, we face various risks and adverse 
conditions which could have a significant adverse effect on our operational 
performance, earnings, cash flows and financial condition (see “Risk 
factors” on page 32). There are limitations to the extent to which we can 
mitigate these risks. We carry out regular portfolio assessments to remain 
a competitive player in Nigeria for the long term. We support the Nigerian 
government’s efforts to improve the efficiency, functionality and domestic 
benefits of Nigeria’s oil and gas industry, and we monitor legislative 
developments. We monitor the security situation and liaise with host 
communities, governmental and non-governmental organisations to help 
promote peace and safe operations. We continue to provide transparency 
in spills management and reporting, along with our deployment of oil-spill 
response capability and technology. We execute a maintenance strategy 
to support sustainable equipment reliability and have implemented a 
multi-year programme to reduce routine flaring of associated gas. See 
“Climate change and energy transition” on page 91-98.
FPSO Bonga, offshore Nigeria.
Rest of Africa
We also have interests in Algeria, Mauritania, Namibia, São Tomé and 
Principe, South Africa and Tunisia.
North america
Canada
We have mineral leases mainly in Alberta and British Columbia. We 
produce and market natural gas, natural gas liquids, synthetic crude oil 
and bitumen.
Shales
We have approximately 1.4 million net mineral acres. Our position is 
primarily in the Duvernay play in Alberta and the Montney play in British 
Columbia. Activity includes drill-to-fill of our existing infrastructure and an 
investment focus on our liquid-rich shale acreage. Our Groundbirch asset 
has the potential to be an integral part of the LNG Canada value chain.
Strategic Report

58
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
In 2019, we drilled and brought 30 wells onstream. We have interests 
in 748 productive wells. In October 2019, we sold our Foothills assets 
comprising approximately 400 thousand net acres at Waterton, 
Jumping Pound, West Central and Caroline, with associated gas 
processing facilities.
After selling our Foothills assets, we operate one natural gas 
processing facility in Alberta and four natural gas processing 
facilities in British Columbia.
Bitumen and synthetic crude oil
Synthetic crude oil is produced by mining bitumen-saturated sands, 
extracting the bitumen from the sands and transporting it to a processing 
facility where hydrogen is added to produce a wide range of feedstocks 
for refineries. We have a 50% interest in 1745844 Alberta Ltd. (formerly 
known as Marathon Oil Canada Corporation), which holds a 20% 
interest in the Athabasca Oil Sands Project. With effect from January 1, 
2020, our interest in the Bitumen and synthetic crude oil will be reported 
in the Oil Products segment. Comparative information will not be restated.
Transporting Shell Bitumen.
Carbon capture and storage (CCS)
We operate the Quest CCS project (Shell interest 10%), which captured 
and safely stored more than 1.1 million tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2019.
USA
We produce oil and gas in deep water in the Gulf of Mexico, heavy oil 
in California and oil and gas from shale in Pennsylvania and Texas. The 
majority of our oil and gas production interests are acquired under leases 
granted by the owner of the minerals underlying the relevant acreage, 
including many leases for federal onshore and offshore tracts. Such leases 
usually run on an initial fixed term that is automatically extended by the 
establishment of production for as long as production continues, subject to 
compliance with the terms of the lease (including, in the case of federal 
leases, extensive regulations imposed by federal law). Our share of 
production in the USA was in total 653 thousand boe/d in 2019.
In December 2019, we recognised an impairment, mainly associated 
with the US Appalachia unconventional gas assets. We will continue to 
regularly review the economic attractiveness of our Shales investments in 
light of the macroeconomic environment, which could result in changes 
to development plans in the future. See Note 8 Property, plant and 
equipment on page 210-213.
Gulf of Mexico
The Gulf of Mexico is our major production area in the USA and accounts 
for around 54% of our oil and gas production in the country. We have 
an interest in approximately 320 federal offshore leases and our share 
of production averaged 359 thousand boe/d in 2019.
In May 2019, we signed an agreement to sell our 22.45% non-operated 
interest in the Caesar-Tonga asset in the US Gulf of Mexico to Equinor. 
The total consideration for this deal was $965 million in cash. This 
was completed on July 1, 2019.
In April 2019, we announced a significant discovery at the Blacktip 
prospect in the deep-water US Gulf of Mexico. Blacktip is a Wilcox 
discovery in the Perdido thrust belt and was discovered in the Alaminos 
Canyon Block 380, approximately 30 miles from the Perdido platform 
and Whale discovery. Evaluation is ongoing and appraisal planning 
is underway to further delineate the discovery and define 
development options.
In May 2019, production started at the Shell-operated Appomattox 
floating production system months ahead of schedule. Appomattox (Shell 
interest 79%) currently has an expected peak production of 175 thousand 
boe/d and is the first commercial discovery now brought into production 
in the deep-water Gulf of Mexico Norphlet formation. In August 2019, 
we took the FID for the PowerNap deep-water project in the US Gulf of 
Mexico. PowerNap (Shell interest 100%), discovered in 2014, is a subsea 
tie-back to the Shell-operated Olympus production hub. The project is 
expected to start production in late 2021 and expected to produce up 
to 35 thousand boe/d at peak rates. In August 2019, the Whale project 
moved into the Define phase. The project is 60% Shell and 40% Chevron, 
with the exception of the AC815 lease area which is 40% Shell and 
60% Chevron. 
We are the operator of eight production hubs – Mars A, Mars B, Auger, 
Perdido, Ursa, Enchilada/Salsa, Appomattox and Stones – as well as the 
West Delta 143 Processing Facilities (Shell interests ranging from 38% to 
100%). We also have non-operating interests in Nakika (Shell interest 
50%) and we continue to produce from Coulomb (Shell interest 100%) 
which ties into the Nakika non-operated platform. Our production in 
the US Gulf of Mexico assets was adversely impacted by 
operational constraints.
Perdido offshore deep-water platform in the Gulf of Mexico.
UPSTREAM continued
Strategic Report

59
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Shales
We have approximately 1.0 million net mineral acres. Our activity is 
focused in the Permian Basin in West Texas and the Marcellus and 
Utica plays in Pennsylvania.
Operator climbs drilling rig, Permian Basin, West Texas USA.
In 2019, we drilled and brought 271 wells onstream. We have interests in 
more than 1,952 productive wells and operate seven central processing 
facilities. The USA represents 61% of our shales proved reserves and 80% 
of our shales liquids proved reserves. In the Permian Basin, we increased 
our production in 2019 by around 40% compared with 2018. In 
December 2019, the first integrated iShale® facilities came on stream in 
East Slash Ranch of our Permian asset. Comprising two pads with eight 
wells in total and a central processing facility, this shale ’field of the future’ 
brings together more than a dozen iShale technologies, including full 
wireless surveillance and controls, low greenhouse gas emissions 
technology, multiphase metering, artificial intelligence technologies 
and solar-powered facilities.
In February 2019, we sold approximately 27 thousand non-core net 
acres, with 61 wells and associated facilities in the Marshlands area 
of Pennsylvania.
In February 2019, we also sold 695 non-producing non-core net acres 
in the Permian Basin.
In December 2019, we sold our non-Shell-operated interest in the 
Haynesville shale gas formation in Northern Louisiana.
California
We have a 51.8% interest in Aera Energy LLC which operates around 
15,000 wells in the San Joaquin Valley in California, mostly producing 
heavy oil and associated gas.
Alaska
Shell retains two exploration acreage positions in the long-established 
North Slope area of Alaska. One is a non-operating interest of 50% in 13 
federal leases, operated by ENI. An exploratory drilling operation for this 
joint venture is under way after being permitted by ENI. We continue to 
evaluate our 18 state leases at nearby Western Harrison Bay, which have 
geologic affinity with recent discoveries announced by other North 
Slope operators.
Rest of North America
We also have interests in Mexico.
South america
Argentina
Shales
We have more than 162 thousand net mineral acres in the Vaca Muerta 
basin, a liquids and gas-rich play located in the Neuquén Province. The 
operated acreage includes blocks in Cruz de Lorena and Sierras Blancas 
(Shell interest 90%), Coiron Amargo Sur Oeste (Shell interest 80%), and 
Bajada de Añelo (Shell interest 50%). We have a 45% non-Shell-operated 
interest in the Rincon La Ceniza and La Escalonada blocks. In 2019, we 
drilled and brought 15 wells onstream. We have interests in 47 producing 
wells. We have a 90% interest in our operated Sierras Blancas/Cruz de 
Lorena central processing facility. 
In December 2019, we agreed a 50:50 partnering with Equinor to jointly 
acquire Schlumberger’s 49% interest in the Bandurria Sur block located in 
the Vaca Muerta basin (Shell interest 24.5%).
Offshore
In April 2019, we won two frontier exploration blocks in the deep-water 
bid round offshore of Argentina. For both blocks, Shell is to be operator 
holding 60% of the participating interest, with Qatar Petroleum holding 
the remaining 40%. 
Brazil
Our share of production in Brazil was in total 383 thousand boe/d 
in 2019.
We operate the Bijupirá and Salema (Shell interest 80%) and BC-10 fields 
(Shell interest 50%) in the Campos Basin, offshore Brazil. Our operated 
portfolio also includes the Gato do Mato field in the Santos Basin and the 
adjacent Sul de Gato do Mato area (Shell interest 80%), for which 
development options are being evaluated. Our operated portfolio also 
includes 10 offshore exploration concessions in the Barreirinhas Basin 
(Shell interests ranging from 50% to 100%), pre-salt PSCs for Alto Cabo 
Frio Oeste (Shell interest 55% as operator) and Saturno (Shell interest 
45% as operator) in the Santos Basin, C-M-791 exploration block (Shell 
Interest 40%) in the Campos Basis, and one block in the Potiguar Basin 
(Shell interest 100%). We have entered into an agreement with Ecopetrol 
for the sale of 30% interest in the Gato do Mato field and Sul de Gato do 
Mato area, which is still subject to regulatory approvals.
FPSO P68 being towed into position, offshore Brazil.
Strategic Report

60
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
In October 2019, during the sixteenth deep-water bid round organised 
by the Brazilian National Petroleum Agency (ANP), we were granted 
exploration and production rights as operator with respect to two 
exploration blocks, C-M-659 and C-M-713, in the Campos Basin 
(Shell Interest 40%). This is awaiting ratification. 
In our non-operated portfolio, we have interests in several fields in the 
offshore Santos Basin, consisting of 30% interests in BM-S-9, Entorno de 
Sapinhoá and BM-S-9A blocks Sapinhoá and Lapa fields. In the Santos 
Basin we also have BMS-11A concession with 25% interest in the Berbigão 
and Sururu fields, which are accumulations subject to ongoing unitisation 
agreements and 4% in the Atapu unit, which has already been subject to 
unitisation in effect from September 2019. The non-operated portfolio in 
the Santos Basis also includes the BMS-11 concession with the Lula field, 
which is partly subject to unitisation that has been in effect since April 
2019 (Shell interest 23% in the unit). The Iracema area of the Lula field 
(Shell interest of 25%) is not subject to unitisation. Additionally, we also 
hold a 20% interest in BM-S-50 offshore exploration block, where the 
Sagitário prospect was discovered and we hold a 20% interest in the Libra 
block where the commerciality of the Mero field was declared. FPSO 
Pioneiro de Libra has been performing extended well tests and operating 
early production systems since 2017 , and exploration is ongoing in the 
Central and South East areas. The Mero field is also subject to unitisation 
with adjoining area, for which a unitisation agreement is still subject to 
government approval. We announced the final investment decision to 
contract the Mero 2 floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) 
vessel to be deployed at the Mero field offshore Santos Basin in Brazil. 
The FPSO has the capacity to process up to 180 thousand boe/d (Shell 
interest 20%). We also hold one deep-water exploration block in the 
Potiguar Basin (Shell interest 40%) and a PSC to explore the Tres 
Marias block in the Santos Basin (Shell interest 40%).
The activities of operated and non-operated fields are currently supported 
by 16 producing deep-water FPSOs, of which the fifteenth (P-67) delivered 
first oil in February 2019 and the sixteenth (P-68) in November 2019. Two 
additional FPSOs are expected to be brought online over the period 
2020-2021 (Atapu I (P-70) and Mero1).
Rest of South America
We also have interests in Colombia and Uruguay.
TRADING AND SUPPLY
We market and trade crude oil from most of our Upstream operations.
Shell markets and trades crude oil.
UPSTREAM continued
Strategic Report

61
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
OIL AND GAS INFORMATION
Proved developed and undeveloped reserves of Shell subsidiaries and Shell share of joint ventures and associates
Crude oil and natural 
gas liquids 
(million barrels)
Natural gas 
(thousand million scf)
Synthetic crude oil 
(million barrels)
Bitumen 
(million barrels)
Total 
(million boe) [A]
Shell subsidiaries
Increase/(decrease) in 2019:
Revisions and reclassifications 444 2,180 (34) – 785
Improved recovery 4 3 – – 5
Extensions and discoveries 158 684 – – 276
Purchases and sales of minerals in place (91) (367) – – (154)
Total before taking production into account 515 2,500 (34) – 912
Production [B] (627) (3,355) (20) – (1,226)
Total (112) (855) (54) – (314)
At January 1, 2019 4,486 29,847 661 – 10,294
At December 31, 2019 4,374 28,992 607 – 9,980
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
Increase/(decrease) in 2019:
Revisions and reclassifications 25 (224) – – (13)
Improved recovery 4 1 – – 4
Extensions and discoveries 2 5 – – 3
Purchases and sales of minerals in place – – – – –
Total before taking production into account 31 (218) – – (6)
Production [C] (38) (721) – – (163)
Total (7) (939) – – (169)
At January 1, 2019 290 5,768 – – 1,285
At December 31, 2019 283 4,829 – – 1,116
Total
Increase/(decrease) before taking production into account 546 2,282 (34) – 906
Production (665) (4,076) (20) – (1,388)
Increase/(decrease) (119) (1,794) (54) – (482)
At January 1, 2019 4,776 35,615 661 – 11,578
At December 31, 2019 4,657 33,821 607 – 11,096
Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest 
in Shell subsidiaries at December 31, 2019 – – 304 – 304
[A] N atural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 standard cubic feet (scf) per barrel.
[B]
 I
ncluded 43 million barrels of oil equivalent (boe) consumed in operations (natural gas: 247 thousand million scf; synthetic crude oil: 1 million barrels).
[C]
 I
ncluded 7 million boe consumed in operations (natural gas: 42 thousand million scf).
Strategic Report

62
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
PROVED RESERVES
The proved oil and gas reserves of Shell subsidiaries and the Shell share of 
the proved oil and gas reserves of joint ventures and associates are set out 
in more detail in “Supplementary Information – Oil and Gas (unaudited)” 
on pages 215-226.
Before taking production into account, our proved reserves increased by 
906 million boe in 2019. This comprised of increases of 912 million boe 
from Shell subsidiaries and of decreases of 6 million boe from the Shell 
share of joint ventures and associates.
After taking production into account, our proved reserves decreased by 
482 million boe in 2019 to 11,096 million boe at December 31, 2019.
SHELL SUBSIDIARIES
Before taking production into account, Shell subsidiaries’ proved reserves 
increased by 912 million boe in 2019. This comprised of increases of 515 
million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids, 431 million boe (2,500 
thousand million scf) of natural gas and decrease of 34 million barrels of 
synthetic crude oil. The 912 million boe increase is the net effect of a net 
increase of 785 million boe from revisions and reclassifications, an 
increase of 5 million boe from improved recovery, an increase of 276 
million boe from extensions and discoveries, and a net decrease of 
154 million boe related to purchases and sales of minerals in place.
After taking into account production of 1,226 million boe (of which 43 
million boe were consumed in operations), Shell subsidiaries’ proved 
reserves decreased by 314 million boe in 2019 to 9,980 million boe. In 
2019, Shell subsidiaries’ proved developed reserves (PD) decreased by 
204 million boe to 7 ,849 million boe, and proved undeveloped reserves 
(PUD) decreased by 110 million boe to 2,131 million boe. 
SHELL SHARE OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 
Before taking production into account, the Shell share of joint ventures 
and associates’ proved reserves decreased by 6 million boe in 2019. 
This comprised an increase of 31 million barrels of crude oil and natural 
gas liquids and a decrease of 37 million boe (218 thousand million scf) 
of natural gas. The 6 million boe decrease comprises a net decrease 
of 13 million boe from revisions and reclassifications and an increase 
of 3 million boe from extensions and discoveries and an increase of 
4 million boe from improved recovery. 
After taking into account production of 163 million boe (of which 7 million 
boe were consumed in operations), the Shell share of joint ventures and 
associates’ proved reserves decreased by 169 million boe to 1,116 million 
boe at December 31, 2019.
The Shell share of joint ventures and associates’ PD decreased by 178 
million boe to 960 million boe, and PUD increased by 9 million boe to 
156 million boe.
For further information, see “Supplementary Information – oil and gas 
(unaudited)” on page 239-249. 
PROVED UNDEVELOPED RESERVES
In 2019, Shell subsidiaries and the Shell share of joint ventures and 
associates’ PUD decreased by 98 million boe to 2,287 million boe. There 
were decreases of 462 million boe due to maturation to PD, mainly 90 
million boe in Lula (Brazil), 65 million boe in Appomattox (USA), and 307 
million boe spread across other fields. These were offset by increases of 
119 million boe due to revisions and net increases of 279 million boe due 
to extensions and discoveries – mainly in the Permian Basin (69 million 
boe), Mero (60 million boe) and Groundbirch (52 million boe) – and 
decreases of 43 million boe due to sales of minerals in place and 
increases of 9 million boe due to improved recovery spread across 
other fields.
In addition to the maturation of 462 million boe from PUD to PD, 178 
million boe was matured to PD from contingent resources through PUD 
as a result of project execution during the year.
PUD held for five years or more (PUD5+) at December 31, 2019, amounted 
to 258 million boe, a decrease of 14 million boe compared with the end of 
2018. These PUD5+ remain undeveloped because development either 
requires the installation of compression equipment and the drilling of 
additional wells, which will be executed when required to support existing 
gas delivery commitments (Russia), or will take longer than five years 
because of the complexity and scale of the project (Australia and the UK).
The decrease in PUD5+ during 2019 was driven mainly by changes in 
Clair (UK), Champion (Brunei), and Forcados-Yokri (Nigeria).
The fields with the largest PUD5+ at December 31, 2019, were 
Jansz-Io and Gorgon (Australia), Lunskoye (Russia) and Clair (UK).
During 2019, we spent $6.9 billion on development activities related 
to PUD maturation.
DELIVERY COMMITMENTS
We sell crude oil and natural gas from our producing operations under a 
variety of contractual obligations. Most contracts generally commit us to 
sell quantities based on production from specified properties, although 
some natural gas sales contracts specify delivery of fixed and 
determinable quantities, as discussed below.
In the past three years, we met our contractual delivery commitments, 
with the notable exceptions of Egypt, Trinidad and Tobago, and 
Malaysia. In the period 2020-2022, we are contractually committed to 
deliver to third parties, joint ventures and associates a total of 7 ,735 billion 
scf of natural gas from our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. The 
sales contracts contain a mixture of fixed and variable pricing formulae 
that are generally referenced to the prevailing market price for crude oil, 
natural gas or other petroleum products at the time of delivery.
In the period 2020-2022, we expect to meet our delivery commitments 
for almost all the areas in which they are carried, with an estimated 75.6% 
coming from PD, 5.4% through the delivery of gas that comes available to 
us from paying royalties in cash, and 19% from the development of PUD 
as well as other new projects and purchases.
The key exceptions are:
 ■ BG Egypt Development NOV: The government decision to divert gas 
from the offshore West Delta Deep Marine fields to domestic use has 
caused a tangible shortfall of 806 billion scf (87% of the promised 
gas delivery), expected to continue in the near future leaving LNG 
gas commitment mostly under force majeure; 
 ■ Trinidad and Tobago (East Coast Marine Area and North Coast 
Marine Area), where PD for all fields fail the economic test at the yearly 
average price for natural gas. However, we expect to cover 83% of 
our delivery commitments from existing developed resource volumes 
and new projects, resulting in an expected true shortfall of some 
119 billion scf; and
 ■ In Malaysia, one of the third-party gas supply lines is under repair 
during 2020. Force majeure has been declared, and no penalties 
have been incurred.
OIL AND GAS INFORMATION continued
Strategic Report

63
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Summary of proved oil and gas reserves of Shell subsidiaries and Shell share of joint ventures and associates (at December 31, 2019)
Based on average prices for 2019
Crude oil and 
natural gas liquids 
(million barrels)
Natural gas 
(thousand million scf)
Synthetic crude oil 
(million barrels)
Total 
(million boe) [A]
Proved developed
Europe 167 2,615 – 618
Asia 1,643 13,610 – 3,989
Oceania 106 5,805 – 1,107
Africa 314 1,523 – 577
North America
USA 641 1,615 – 920
Canada 15 781 607 757
South America 675 968 – 841
Total proved developed 3,561 26,917 607 8,809
Proved undeveloped
Europe 119 976 – 287
Asia 180 1,208 – 388
Oceania 15 2,591 – 462
Africa 80 1,085 – 267
North America
USA 341 254 – 385
Canada 3 499 – 89
South America 358 291 – 409
Total proved undeveloped 1,096 6,904 – 2,287
Total proved developed and undeveloped
Europe 286 3,591 – 905
Asia 1,823 14,818 – 4,377
Oceania 121 8,396 – 1,569
Africa 394 2,608 – 844
North America
USA 982 1,869 – 1,305
Canada 18 1,280 607 846
South America 1,033 1,259 – 1,250
Total 4,657 33,821 607 11,096
Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in Shell subsidiaries – – 304 304
[A] N atural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.
Strategic Report

64
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
EXPLORATION
In 2019, we made notable discoveries in the US Gulf of Mexico and 
Australia. In April 2019, we announced a significant discovery at the 
Blacktip prospect in the Perdido Corridor within the deep-water US Gulf of 
Mexico (Shell interest 52.4% as operator). This and other drilling successes 
in the US Gulf of Mexico highlight the potential of this area. Further 
exploration is planned in 2020. 
We also announced a significant gas discovery at the Bratwurst prospect 
in the Browse Basin.
We continue to strengthen our portfolio in the US Gulf of Mexico, Brunei, 
Oman, Brazil and Egypt, while opening up new positions in Argentina, 
Colombia, São Tomé and Príncipe and South Africa.
In 2018, Shell entered into a partnership with Oman Oil Company 
Exploration production (Shell interest 50%) to explore for oil and gas in 
Block 42, a vast under-explored area of 31,068 square kilometres in the 
Al Sharqiyah Governate, Sultanate of Oman. This was ratified by 
Royal Decree on January 23, 2019.
In March 2019, the dilution and transfer of operatorship was completed 
for two exploration blocks in deep-water Colombia, following these 
blocks’ conversion from Technical Evaluation Agreements to Exploration 
& Production contracts. For both blocks, Noble Energy becomes the 
operator with 40% working interest, with the remaining 60% held by 
Shell. The gross area of the COL-3 block is around 4,000 square 
kilometres, and the gross area of the GUA OFF-3 block is around 
4,800 square kilometres. 
In US Gulf of Mexico Lease Sale 252 in March 2019 we acquired 77 
blocks across multiple plays in the US Gulf of Mexico. This acquisition 
included significant acquisitions close to the 2019 Blacktip discovery 
(Shell interest 52.4%), in the underexplored areas of Garden Banks 
and in Desoto Canyon south east of the Appomattox production facility. 
In April 2019, we won two exploration blocks in the deep-water bid round 
in Argentina. These frontier exploration blocks are at the edge of the 
continental shelf and have approximate areas of 7 ,875 square kilometres 
and 8,340 square kilometres. For both blocks, we are the operator, 
holding 60% of the participating interest, with Qatar Petroleum holding 
the remaining 40%. 
In South Africa in April 2019, we entered the frontier deep-water Cape 
Basin (Shell interest 40%) and a second block next to our existing acreage 
in the Namibian Orange Basin (Shell interest 45%).
In October 2019, during the sixteenth deep-water bid round organised 
by the Brazilian National Petroleum Agency (ANP), we were granted 
exploration and production rights with respect to two exploration blocks, 
C-M-659 and C-M-713, as operator in the Campos Basin (Shell Interest 
40%). This is awaiting ratification. 
Also in October, we signed an Exploration & Production Sharing 
Agreement for Block 55 in the southeast of the Sultanate. Oman Shell 
now has a 100% working interest and operatorship of Block 55 with a 
total area of 7 ,564 square kilometres. The agreement includes a work 
programme of regional studies, seismic acquisition and other potential 
exploration activities. This agreement is awaiting ratification via 
Royal Decree.
In November 2019, we completed a farm-in transaction with Kosmos 
Energy, acquiring participating interests in Block 6 (Shell interest 20%) 
and Block 11 (Shell interest 30%) exploration licences (together 
approximately 14,000 square kilometres) offshore of São Tomé 
and Príncipe, representing a new country entry for Shell. Partners in 
the blocks are Kosmos Energy (Operator of Block 11), Galp Energia 
(Operator of Block 6) and ANP-STP, the national oil company.
In December 2019, we were awarded two concessions in the Red Sea 
bid round. The two blocks cover more than 6,000 square kilometres in 
an underexplored region of Egypt, south of the Gulf of Suez hydrocarbon 
province. Block 4 (Shell interest 70%) is in partnership with Mubadala 
Petroleum and Block 3 as the sole operator, with initial exploration 
plans being 3D seismic and petroleum system studies. This is 
awaiting ratification.
In total, the net undeveloped acreage in our exploration portfolio 
increased by around 9 million acres in 2019. The largest contributions 
were licence entries in South Africa, Oman, Argentina, Egypt and 
Colombia, offset by relinquishments and divestments in Australia, 
Myanmar and Gabon.
For further information, see “Supplementary Information – oil and gas 
(unaudited)” on page 239-246.
OIL AND GAS INFORMATION continued
Strategic Report

65
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
LOCATION OF OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES
Location of oil and gas exploration and production activities [A] (at December 31, 2019)
Exploration
Development 
and/or production
Shell 
operator[B]
Europe
Albania • •
Bulgaria • •
Cyprus •
Germany • •
Italy • • •
Netherlands • • •
Norway • • •
UK • • •
Asia
Brunei • • •
China • •
Indonesia •
Kazakhstan • •
Malaysia • • •
Myanmar •
Oman • • •
Philippines • • •
Qatar • •
Russia • •
Turkey • •
Oceania
Australia • • •
Africa
Egypt • • •
Mauritania • •
Morocco •
Namibia • •
Nigeria • • •
São Tomé and Príncipe •
South Africa • •
Tanzania • •
Tunisia • •
North America
Canada • • •
Mexico • •
USA • • •
South America
Argentina • • •
Bolivia • • •
Brazil • • •
Colombia • •
Trinidad and Tobago • • •
Uruguay •
[A] I ncludes joint ventures and associates. Where a joint venture or an associate has properties outside its base country, those properties are not shown in this table. 
[B]
 I
n several countries where “Shell operator” is indicated, Shell is the operator of some but not all exploration and/or production ventures. 
Strategic Report

66
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
OIL AND GAS INFORMATION continued
OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION AVAILABLE FOR SALE
Crude oil and natural gas liquids [A]
Thousand barrels
2019 2018 2017
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Europe
Denmark 7, 4 9 0 – 13,036 – 15,467 –
Italy 9,747 – 10,921 – 8,733 –
Norway 7, 0 2 5 – 13,528 – 19,529 –
UK 30,677 – 31,431 – 45,020 –
Other [B] 723 1,135 795 1,417 860 1,272
Total Europe 55,662 1,135 69,711 1,417 89,609 1,272
Asia
Brunei 196 20,002 283 18,738 1,138 15,831
Kazakhstan 34,269 – 32,432 – 29,491 –
Malaysia 21,993 – 24,650 – 26,574 –
Oman 76,493 – 76,847 – 7 7, 6 8 7 –
Russia 22,442 9,413 22,003 10,403 22,049 10,899
Other [B] 28,796 7, 7 0 9 28,769 7, 76 8 30,180 7, 8 5 9
Total Asia 184,189 37,12 4 184,984 36,909 1 8 7,11 9 34,589
Total Oceania [B] 10,058 – 8,883 – 9,098 –
Africa
Gabon – – – – 9,750 –
Nigeria 56,589 – 53,102 – 56,337 –
Other [B] 7, 8 0 2 – 8,265 – 9,003 –
Total Africa 64,391 – 61,367 – 75,090 –
North America
USA 171,204 – 140,035 – 109,430 –
Canada 11,506 – 13,111 – 10,775 –
Total North America 182,710 – 153,146 – 120,205 –
South America
Brazil 126,366 – 118,681 – 111,093 –
Other [B] 3,900 – 3,414 – 3,325 –
Total South America 130,266 – 122,095 – 114,418 –
Total 627 ,276 38,259 600,186 38,326 595,539 35,861
[A] R eflects 100% of production of subsidiaries except in respect of production-sharing contracts (PSCs), where the figures shown represent the entitlement of the subsidiaries concerned under 
those contracts.
[B]
 C
omprises countries where 2019 production was lower than 10,100 thousand barrels or where specific disclosures are prohibited.
Synthetic crude oil
Thousand barrels
2019 2018 2017
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell 
subsidiaries
North America – Canada 19,076 19,514 33,183
Bitumen
Thousand barrels
2019 2018 2017
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell 
subsidiaries
North America – Canada – – 1,681
Strategic Report

67
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Natural gas [A]
Million standard cubic feet
2019 2018 2017
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Shell 
 subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Europe
Denmark 24,433 – 45,027 – 52,105 –
Germany 41,846 – 40,368 – 48,002 –
Ireland – – 44,833 – 52,515 –
Netherlands – 244,286 – 271,303 – 343,126
Norway 182,683 – 239,253 – 243,352 –
UK 62,174 – 82,695 – 174,478 –
Other [B] 15,062 – 16,422 – 13,125 –
Total Europe 326,198 244,286 468,598 271,303 583,577 343,126
Asia
Brunei 22,185 160,648 21,205 1 5 7, 476 29,880 158,877
China 44,510 – 42,419 – 43,899 –
Kazakhstan 84,499 – 78,575 – 80,623 –
Malaysia 226,277 – 2 37,1 0 2 – 221,590 –
Philippines 4 4,374 – 44,017 – 42,958 –
Russia 4,563 134,807 4,044 136,652 4,052 1 37, 8 9 0
Thailand – – 25,973 – 60,742 –
Other [B] 4 07, 8 9 9 118,253 378,785 117,9 76 288,728 118,352
Total Asia 834,307 413,708 832,120 412,104 772,472 415,119
Oceania
Australia 686,956 20,840 648,735 18,923 591,860 18,708
New Zealand – – 40,153 – 51,943 –
Total Oceania 686,956 20,840 688,888 18,923 643,803 18,708
Africa
Egypt 92,169 – 148,721 – 122,439 –
Nigeria 234,332 – 232,899 – 236,370 –
Other [B] 30,266 – 30,669 – 36,187 –
Total Africa 356,767 – 412,289 – 394,996 –
North America
USA 389,130 – 355,075 – 286,529 –
Canada 220,005 – 2 47, 8 9 0 – 224,529 –
Total North America 609,135 – 602,965 – 511,058 –
South America
Bolivia 48,501 – 55,480 – 59,673 –
Brazil 78,526 – 68,865 – 70,100 –
Trinidad and Tobago 159,698 – 104,454 – 73,000 –
Other [B] 8,662 – 8,062 – 8,370 –
Total South America 295,387 – 236,861 – 211,143 –
Total 3,108,750 678,834 3,241,721 702,330 3 ,117, 0 4 9 776,953
[A] R eflects 100% of production of subsidiaries except in respect of PSCs, where the figures shown represent the entitlement of the subsidiaries concerned under those contracts.
[B]
 C
omprises countries where 2019 production was lower than 41,795 million scf or where specific disclosures are prohibited.
Strategic Report

68
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
OIL AND GAS INFORMATION continued
AVERAGE REALISED PRICE BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA
Crude oil and natural gas liquids
$/barrel
2019 2018 2017
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Europe 65.11 58.08 68.23 64.24 50.52 46.88
Asia 58.16 65.25 64.06 70.66 49.08 53.44
Oceania 51.51 – 61.63 – 45.64 –
Africa 65.39 – 71.02 – 53.39 –
North America – USA 54.56 – 61.87 – 47. 2 3 –
North America – Canada 36.61 – 43.72 – 36.00 –
South America 56.68 – 62.67 – 48.10 –
Total 5 7. 5 6 65.05 63.96 70.43 49.00 53.23
Synthetic crude oil
$/barrel
2019 2018 2017
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell 
subsidiaries
North America – Canada 50.27 48.90 45.90
Bitumen
$/barrel
2019 2018 2017
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell 
subsidiaries
North America – Canada – – 34.46
Natural gas
$/thousand scf
2019 2018 2017
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Shell 
 subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Europe 5.59 4.95 7. 0 8[A] 4.06 5.48 4.77
Asia 2.66 6.34 2.99 7. 0 6 2.84 5.45
Oceania 8.22 3.91 8.66 [A] 4.15 6.21 3.11
Africa 2.92 – 3.02 – 2.44 –
North America – USA 2.27 – 3.12 – 3.00 –
North America – Canada 1.37 – 1.35 – 1.85 –
South America 2.33 – 3.50 – 2.93 [A] –
Total 3.95 5.80 4.63 [A] 5.74 3.90 [A] 5.11
[A] A s revised, following a reassessment.
Strategic Report

69
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
AVERAGE PRODUCTION COST BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA
Crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas [A]
$/boe
2019 2018 2017
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share of 
joint ventures 
and associates
Europe 14.14 5.76 15.03 6.37 13.19 5.58
Asia 6.30 6.17 6.52 6.24 7. 7 1 6.87
Oceania 9.17 24.49 8.41 32.18 9.24 28.83
Africa 8.44 – 8.25 – 9.53 –
North America – USA 11.78 – 12.78 – 16.11 –
North America – Canada 11.88 – 11.58 – 14.53 –
South America 6.26 – 8.60 – 8.08 –
Total 8.95 6.48 9.66 6.81 10.55 6.82
[A] N atural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel. 
Synthetic crude oil
$/barrel
2019 2018 2017
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell 
subsidiaries
North America – Canada 19.29 20.15 23.77
Bitumen
$/barrel
2019 2018 2017
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell 
subsidiaries
North America – Canada – – 16.19
Strategic Report

70
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
DOWNSTREAM
Key statistics
$ million, except where indicated
2019 2018 2017
Segment earnings [A] 6,277 7, 6 0 1 8,258
Including:
Revenue (including inter-segment sales) 294,677 335,597 265,821
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates [A] 1,725 1,785 1,956
Interest and other income 266 345 154
Operating expenses [B] 18,697 20,743 19,583
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 5,413 4,064 3,877
Taxation charge [A] 1,241 1,515 1,783
Capital expenditure 8,650 7, 0 8 3 5,826
Cash capital expenditure [B] 8,926 7, 4 0 8 6,090
Capital investment [B] 10,542 7, 5 6 5 6,418
Refinery availability (%) [C] 91 91 91
Chemical plant availability (%) [C] 89 93 92
Refinery processing intake (thousand b/d) 2,564 2,648 2,572
Oil products sales volumes (thousand b/d) 6,561 6,783 6,599
Chemicals sales volumes (thousand tonnes) 15,223 17, 6 4 4 18,239
[A] S ee Note 4 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on pages 206-208. Segment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis.
[B]
 S
ee “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” on pages 279-280.
[C]
 T
he basis of calculation differs from that used for the “Refinery and chemical plant availability” measure in “Performance indicators” on page 42, which excludes downtime due to uncontrollable 
factors and, in 2017 , excludes assets which were not part of Shell’s operational performance metrics because of portfolio activity (Fredericia and former Motiva sites).
OVERVIEW
Our Downstream business consists of Oil Products and Chemicals 
activities. They form part of an integrated value chain that trades and 
refines crude oil and other feedstocks into products that are moved and 
marketed around the world for domestic, industrial and transport use. The 
products we sell include gasoline, diesel, heating oil, aviation fuel, marine 
fuel, biofuel, lubricants, bitumen and sulphur. We also produce and sell 
petrochemicals for industrial use worldwide.
Our Oil Products activities comprise Refining and Trading, and Marketing. 
These are referred to as classes of business. Marketing includes Retail, 
Lubricants, Business-to-Business (B2B), Pipelines and Biofuels. Chemicals 
has major manufacturing plants, which are located close to refineries, and 
its own marketing network. In Trading and Supply, we trade crude oil, oil 
products and petrochemicals to optimise feedstocks for Refining and 
Chemicals, to supply our Marketing businesses and third parties, and 
for our own profit.
BUSINESS CONDITIONS
Global oil demand grew by 1.0 million barrels per day (b/d), or 1.0%, to 
100.3 million b/d, according to the International Energy Agency’s (IEA) 
Oil Market Report published in January 2020. Oil demand growth in 
2019 was 0.1 million b/d lower than in 2018.
Industry gross refining margins were lower on average in 2019 than in 
2018 in three of the four key refining hubs in Europe, Singapore and the 
US Gulf Coast. In the US West Coast gross margins improved, partly due 
to product prices being supported by unplanned outages in the region. 
Globally, year-on-year growth in demand for oil products has slowed in 
line with slowing global economic growth. Refinery capacity additions, 
especially in the Middle East and Asia, combined with lower demand 
growth have led to generally lower refinery utilisations, which weakened 
margins. Refinery activity continued to be low in Latin America amid the 
ongoing geopolitical uncertainty and poor investment climate. On 
January 1, 2020, the new International Maritime Organization low-
sulphur shipping fuel specification came into effect. The industry has 
started preparations but the full effect of the implementation is expected 
later in the year.
Cracker industry margins in Asia halved. Cracker margins in Western 
Europe and the USA were relatively unchanged versus 2018. West 
European margins were supported by a high level of maintenance 
outages in the first half of 2019, while in the USA margins were 
supported by low ethane prices.
  S ee “Market overview” on page 37.
REFINERY AND CHEMICAL PLANT AVAILABILITY
Refinery availability was 91% in 2019, unchanged from 2018.
Chemicals plant availability was 89% in 2019, compared with 93% 
in 2018, due to higher planned downtime in Asia and Europe and the 
impact of strike action in the Netherlands.
OIL PRODUCTS AND CHEMICALS SALES
Oil products sales volumes decreased by 3% in 2019 compared with 2018, 
reflecting lower trading volumes primarily in Asia and Europe and, to a lesser 
extent, impact on marketing volumes due to the sale of the Downstream 
Argentina business to Raízen (volumes reported at 50% Shell share).
Chemicals sales volumes decreased by 14% in 2019 compared with 
2018, mainly due to lower downstream demand and higher downtime 
at some sites.
EARNINGS 2019-2018
Segment earnings in 2019 of $6,277 million are presented on a current 
cost of supplies basis (see “Summary of results” on page 40). Segment 
earnings on a first-in, first-out basis were $6,883 million, which were 
$606 million higher than on a current cost of supplies basis (2018 first-in, 
first-out segment earnings were $458 million lower than the current cost 
of supplies basis). See “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” on 
page 279-280.
Segment earnings in 2019 of $6,277 million were 17% lower than in 
2018. Earnings in 2019 included a net charge of $403 million, compared 
with a net gain in 2018 of $34 million, which is described at the end of 
this section.
Strategic Report

71
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Excluding the impact of these items, earnings in 2019 were $6,680 million, 
compared with $7 ,567 million in 2018. Refining and Trading accounted for 
19% of these 2019 earnings, Marketing for 70% and Chemicals for 11%.
The decrease in Downstream earnings, excluding the net charges, of 
$887 million (12%) compared with 2018 was driven by lower Refining 
and Trading margins (around $400 million) and lower Chemicals margins 
(around $1,500 million). This was partly offset by higher Marketing 
margins (around $500 million), benefit from foreign exchange (around 
$250 million), lower operating costs (around $130 million) and change 
in accounting policy IFRS 16 (around $150 million).
The decrease in earnings of $887 million analysed by class of business 
was as follows:
 ■ Refining and Trading earnings were $279 million lower than in 2018, 
principally due to lower realised Refining margins due to adverse price 
variance across all regions driven by lower global demand growth and 
increase in worldwide refining capacity; and higher maintenance costs. 
Partly offsetting this were higher earnings from oil products trading and 
optimisation, mainly fuel oil;
 ■ Marketing earnings were $727 million higher than in 2018. This was 
due to stronger unit margins and lower operating expenses in Retail 
and Lubricants, better revenue from Retail ventures, and lower pension 
costs. Partly offsetting these were lower earnings from Raízen, the joint 
venture (Shell interest 50%) in Brazil, due to adverse foreign exchange 
and lower fuel margins; and
 ■ Chemicals earnings were $1,334 million lower than in 2018. Results 
were impacted by lower realised base chemicals and intermediate 
margins and higher maintenance activities in Asia and Europe, 
including the impact of strike action in the Netherlands, partly 
offset by lower operating expenses.
Segment earnings in 2019 included a net charge of $403 million. 
Offsetting items included:
 ■ impairment charges of $341 million (mainly expenditure at Bukom 
and other assets);
 ■ costs related to restructuring of $88 million (various initiatives 
across Downstream);
 ■ other net charges of $273 million (mainly legal provision in 
Chemicals); and
 ■ net charge from fair value accounting of commodity derivatives 
of $68 million.
The effects of offsetting items were partially countered by:
 ■ net gains from disposal of assets of $318 million; and
 ■ gain from one-off tax items of $49 million (tax rate changes in 
Alberta, Canada).
Segment earnings in 2018 included a net gain of $34 million. 
Offsetting items included:
 ■ net gains from fair value accounting of commodity derivatives of 
$233 million;
 ■ gains from disposal of assets of $225 million (mainly our 
Downstream assets in Argentina and other smaller disposals); and
 ■ gains from one-off tax items of $118 million (mainly corporation 
tax rate changes in the Netherlands and the USA).
The effect of offsetting items was countered by:
 ■ impairment charge of $386 million (mainly expenditure at Bukom 
and on assets at Stanlow);
 ■ costs related to restructuring of $109 million (various of initiatives 
across Downstream); and
 ■ other net charges of $47 million, which included a one-off gain from 
the Ontario cap-and-trade scheme and onerous contracts related to 
decommissioning of the Stanlow site.
EARNINGS 2018-2017
Segment earnings which were presented on a current cost of supplies 
basis were $458 million higher in 2018 than on a first-in, first-out basis 
(2017: $964 million lower).
Segment earnings in 2018 of $7 ,601 million were 8% lower than in 2017 . 
Earnings in 2018 included a net gain of $34 million described above. 
Earnings in 2017 included a net charge of $824 million, reflecting 
impairment charges of $315 million, redundancy and restructuring 
charges of $200 million, charges of $142 million related to US tax reform 
legislation and a tax rate change in France, and other net charges of 
$231 million (related to onerous contract provision and a legal provision). 
These were partly offset by divestment gains of $39 million and net gain 
of $25 million from fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. 
Excluding the impact of these items, earnings in 2018 were $7 ,567 million, 
compared with $9,082 million in 2017 . Refining and Trading accounted for 
20% of these 2018 earnings, Marketing for 53% and Chemicals for 27%.
The decrease in Downstream earnings, excluding the net charges, of 
$1,515 million (17%) compared with 2017 was driven by higher operating 
costs (around $700 million), adverse foreign exchange effects (around 
$530 million), lower base Chemicals margins (around $370 million), lower 
refining margins (around $150 million) and other impacts resulting in a net 
charge of around $120 million. This was partly offset by higher marketing 
margins (around $360 million). Operating costs were higher due to higher 
maintenance costs (Chemicals and Refining assets) and higher costs for 
marketing growth opportunities. Chemicals margins were impacted by 
higher feedstock costs globally, higher utility costs and new cracker 
start-ups in the USA, and operational issues in Europe. Marketing margins 
benefited from favourable market conditions at the end of the year. The 
other net negative impacts were mainly portfolio effects.
CASH CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND CAPITAL INVESTMENT
Cash capital expenditure (cash capex) was $8.9 billion in 2019, compared 
with $7 .4 billion in 2018. Capital investment was $10.5 billion in 2019 
compared to $7 .6 billion in 2018. 
Cash capex in Refining was in line with 2018 at $2.4 billion. In Chemicals, 
cash capex increased by $0.9 billion to $4.1 billion (increase mainly from 
investment in our new cracker facilities in Pennsylvania). In Marketing, 
cash capex increased by $0.4 billion to $2.2 billion (increase mainly 
from investment in a US pipeline project).
Increase in capital investment on account of leases was $1.4 billion 
($1.6 billion in 2019 compared with $0.2 billion in 2018) due to 
accounting policy change (IFRS 16) implemented in 2019.
PORTFOLIO AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENTS
We continued to high-grade our portfolio in 2019, including:
 ■ In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, we completed the sale of our 50% 
interest in Shell Saudi Arabia (Refining) Limited (SASREF), a joint 
venture in Jubail Industrial City, to Saudi Arabian Oil Company 
(Saudi Aramco) for $631 million.
 ■ In the USA, our subsidiary Equilon Enterprises LLC, doing business as 
Shell Oil Products US, announced in June 2019 that we have reached 
an agreement for the sale of Martinez Refinery in California to PBF 
Holding Company LLC for a $1.0 billion consideration. The sale was 
concluded in February 2020 in exchange for $1.2 billion which 
includes the refinery and inventory.
 ■ Also in the USA, in March 2020, we announced our intention to sell 
the Puget Sound refinery in Washington and Mobile site in Alabama.
Strategic Report

72
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
BUSINESS AND PROPERTY
Refining and trading
Refining
We have interests in 15 refineries worldwide, (after the completion of sale 
of Martinez refinery in February 2020), with the capacity to process a 
total of 2.5 million barrels of crude oil per day (Shell share). Our refining 
capacity is 42% in Europe and Africa, 41% in the Americas and 17% in 
Asia and Oceania. 
In 2019, we concluded the sale of our 50% share of the SASREF 
joint venture in Jubail Industrial City, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, 
to Saudi Aramco.
Trading and Supply
Through our main trading offices in London, Houston, Singapore, Dubai 
and Rotterdam, we trade crude oil, natural gas, LNG, electricity, refined 
products, chemical feedstocks and environmental products. Trading and 
Supply trades in physical and financial contracts, lease storage and 
transportation capacities, and manages shipping and wholesale 
commercial fuel activities globally. This includes supplying feedstocks for 
our refineries and chemical plants and finished products such as gasoline, 
diesel and aviation fuel to our Marketing businesses and customers.
Operating in around 30 countries, with more than 125 Shell and 
joint-venture terminals, we believe our supply and distribution 
infrastructure is well positioned to make deliveries around the world.
Through its Shipping and Maritime business, Trading and Supply has 
an interest in around 2,000 Shell-associated vessels and other floating 
facilities on any given day, and manages one of the world’s largest fleets 
of LNG carriers. Shipping and Maritime enables the Shell Trading and 
Supply organisation to deliver safely on its contracts. This includes 
supplying feedstocks for our refineries and chemical plants, and finished 
products such as gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel to our Marketing 
businesses and customers.
Shell Wholesale Commercial Fuels provides fuels for transport, industry 
and heating. Our range of products, from reliable main-grade fuels 
to premium products, is designed to provide tangible vehicle and 
business benefits.
Marketing
Retail
Shell is the world’s largest mobility retailer, by number of sites, with 
45,000 service stations operating in close to 80 countries at the end 
of 2019. We operate different models across these markets, from full 
ownership of retail sites through to brand licensing agreements.
Every day, more than 30 million customers visit these sites to buy fuel, 
convenience items, including beverages and fresh food, and services, such 
as lubricant changes and car washes. We offer our business customers 
Shell Fleet Solutions, a ‘one-stop-shop’ for their mobility and energy 
transition needs, providing items including fuel cards, road services and 
carbon-neutral offers.
We have more than 100 years’ experience in fuel development. Aided by 
our innovative partnership with Scuderia Ferrari, we have concentrated on 
developing fuels with special formulations designed to clean engines and 
improve performance. We sold such fuels under the Shell V-Power brand 
in 62 countries as at the end of 2019.
In a growing number of markets, we are offering customers lower-emission 
solutions, including biofuels, electric vehicle fast-charging, hydrogen and 
various gaseous fuels such as LNG. During 2019, we introduced 
carbon-neutral driving in the Netherlands and the UK, through which we 
offset customers’ emissions by purchasing carbon credits generated from 
projects that plant and protect nature like forests, wetlands and other 
natural ecosystems.
Shell V-Power brand is sold in 62 countries.
Lubricants
Across more than 150 markets, we produce, market and sell technically 
advanced lubricants for passenger cars, motorcycles, trucks, coaches, and 
machinery used in manufacturing, mining, power generation, agriculture 
and construction sectors.
We also manufacture premium lubricants from natural gas using GTL base 
oils produced at our Pearl GTL plant in Qatar (see “Integrated Gas” on 
page 48).
We have a global lubricants supply chain with a network of four base oil 
manufacturing plants, 29 lubricant blending plants, nine grease plants 
and four GTL base oil storage hubs.
Through our marine activities, we primarily provide lubricants, but also 
fuels and related technical services, to the shipping and maritime sectors. 
We supply around 210 grades of lubricants and six types of fuel to vessels 
worldwide, ranging from large ocean-going tankers to small fishing boats.
Shell lubricant plant, Oman.
DOWNSTREAM continued
Strategic Report

73
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Business-to-Business
Our Business-to-Business (B2B) activities encompass the sale of fuels 
and specialty products and services to a broad range of commercial 
customers.
Shell Aviation provides fuel and lubricants across more than 60 countries 
and supplies fuel at about 900 airports.
Shell Bitumen supplies customers across 52 markets and provides enough 
bitumen to resurface 500 kilometres of road lanes every day. It also 
invests in technology research and development to create innovative 
products.
Shell Sulphur Solutions is a business that manages the complete value 
chain of sulphur, from refining to marketing. The business provides sulphur 
for use in applications such as fertiliser, mining and chemicals and also 
develops new technologies for sulphur that benefit sectors such as 
agriculture.
Pipelines
Shell Pipeline Company LP (Shell interest 100%) owns and operates 10 
tank farms across the USA. It transports more than 2 billion barrels of 
crude oil and refined products a year through about 6,000 kilometres 
of pipelines in the Gulf of Mexico and five US states. Our various 
non-Shell-operated ownership interests provide about a further 
14,000 pipeline kilometres.
We carry more than 40 types of crude oil and more than 20 grades 
of gasoline, as well as diesel, aviation fuel, chemicals and ethylene.
Shell Midstream Partners, L.P., a midstream master limited partnership, 
owns, operates, develops and acquires pipelines and other midstream 
assets in the USA. Its assets consist of interests in entities that own crude 
oil and refined products pipelines and terminals that serve as key 
infrastructure to transport onshore and offshore crude oil production to 
Gulf Coast and Midwest refining markets. It also delivers refined products 
from those markets to major demand centres. Its assets also include 
interests in entities that own natural gas and refinery gas pipelines that 
transport offshore natural gas to market hubs and deliver refinery gas 
from refineries and plants to chemical sites along the Gulf Coast. Shell 
controls the general partner.
See “Governance – Related Party Transactions” on page 167 and 
Note 29 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on page 238.
Biofuels
Raízen, our joint venture in Brazil (Shell interest 50%), produces ethanol 
from sugar cane, with an annual production capacity of more than 2.5 
billion litres; exports sugar, with an annual production of about 3.8 million 
tonnes; and manages a retail network. In 2015, Raízen opened its first 
cellulosic ethanol plant at its Costa Pinto mill in Brazil, which produced 
almost 19.5 million litres in 2019. When fully operational, the mill is 
expected to produce around 40 million litres a year of advanced 
biofuels from sugar-cane residues.
Raizen Brazil harvesting crops used for the processing of biofuel.
Chemicals
Manufacturing
Our plants produce a range of base chemicals, including ethylene, 
propylene and aromatics, and intermediate chemicals such as styrene 
monomer, propylene oxide, solvents, detergent alcohols, ethylene oxide 
and ethylene glycol. We have the capacity to produce around 6.5 million 
tonnes of ethylene a year.
Marketing
In 2019, we supplied more than 15 million tonnes of petrochemicals to 
around 1,000 industrial customers worldwide. Our products are used to 
make numerous everyday items, from clothing and cars to detergents 
and bicycle helmets.
DOWNSTREAM BUSINESS ACTIVITIES WITH 
SUDAN AND SYRIA
Sudan
We ceased all operational activities in Sudan in 2008.
Syria
We ceased supplying polyols, via a Netherlands-based distributor, to 
private sector customers in Syria in 2018. Polyols are commonly used 
for the production of foam in mattresses and soft furnishings.
Strategic Report

74
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
DOWNSTREAM DATA TABLES
The tables below reflect Shell subsidiaries and instances where Shell owns 
the crude oil or feedstocks processed by a refinery. In addition, the tables 
include the Al Jubail refinery on a 50% basis until the date of divestment. 
Other joint ventures and associates are only included where explicitly stated.
Oil products – cost of crude oil processed or consumed [A]
$/barrel
2019 2018 2017
Total 54.97 59.94 46.78
[A] I ncludes Upstream and Integrated Gas margins on crude oil supplied by Shell subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates.
Crude distillation capacity [A]
Thousand b/calendar day [B]
2019 2018 2017
Europe 970 970 970
Asia 704 704 704
Oceania – – –
Africa 83 82 82
Americas 1,075 1,157 1,176
Total 2,832 2,913 2,932
[A] A verage operating capacity for the year, excluding mothballed capacity.
[B]
 C
alendar day capacity is the maximum sustainable capacity adjusted for normal 
unit downtime.
Ethylene capacity [A]
Thousand tonnes/year
2019 2018 2017
Europe 1,701 1,701 1,702
Asia 2,530 2,529 1,904
Oceania – – –
Africa – – –
Americas 2,268 2,268 2,267
Total 6,499 6,498 5,873
[A] I ncludes the Shell share of capacity entitlement (offtake rights) of joint ventures and 
associates, which may be different from nominal equity interest. Nominal capacity is 
quoted at December 31.
Oil products – crude oil processed [A]
Thousand b/d
2019 2018 2017
Europe 829 897 892
Asia 498 545 528
Oceania – – –
Africa 55 66 54
Americas 1,004 1,041 997
Total 2,386 2,549 2,471
[A] I ncludes natural gas liquids, share of joint ventures and associates and processing for others.
Refinery processing intake [A]
Thousand b/d
2019 2018 2017
Crude oil 2,342 2,434 2,364
Feedstocks 222 214 208
Total 2,564 2,648 2,572
Europe 875 896 892
Asia 517 543 539
Oceania – – –
Africa 55 66 54
Americas 1,117 1,143 1,087
Total 2,564 2,648 2,572
[A] I ncludes crude oil, natural gas liquids and feedstocks processed in crude distillation units and 
in secondary conversion units.
Refinery processing outturn [A]
Thousand b/d
2019 2018 2017
Gasolines 952 966 955
Kerosines 417 321 290
Gas/Diesel oils 818 965 925
Fuel oil 223 284 265
Other 282 321 334
Total 2,692 2,858 2,769
[A] E xcludes own use and products acquired for blending purposes.
DOWNSTREAM continued
Strategic Report

75
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Oil product sales volumes [A][B]
Thousand b/d
2019 2018 2017
Europe
Gasolines 334 323 317
Kerosines 317 294 272
Gas/Diesel oils 720 745 758
Fuel oil 138 178 170
Other products 278 314 362
Total 1,787 1,854 1,879
Asia
Gasolines 408 373 399
Kerosines 208 210 216
Gas/Diesel oils 535 543 516
Fuel oil 330 407 349
Other products 518 620 536
Total 2,000 2,153 2,016
Oceania
Gasolines – – –
Kerosines – – 23
Gas/Diesel oils – – –
Fuel oil – – –
Other products – – –
Total – – 23
Africa
Gasolines 46 42 43
Kerosines 13 10 13
Gas/Diesel oils 70 74 78
Fuel oil 2 2 2
Other products 6 6 6
Total 137 134 142
Americas
Gasolines 1,419 1,446 1,415
Kerosines 239 236 212
Gas/Diesel oils 582 567 545
Fuel oil 120 117 92
Other products 277 276 275
Total 2,637 2,642 2,539
Total product sales [C][D]
Gasolines 2,207 2,184 2,174
Kerosines 777 750 736
Gas/Diesel oils 1,907 1,929 1,897
Fuel oil 590 704 613
Other products 1,079 1,216 1,179
Total 6,561 6,783 6,599
[A] E xcludes deliveries to other companies under reciprocal sale and purchase arrangements, that are in the nature of exchanges. Sales of condensate and natural gas liquids are included.
[B]
 I
ncludes the Shell share of Raízen’s sales volumes.
[C]
 C
ertain contracts are held for trading purposes and reported net rather than gross. The effect in 2019 was a reduction in oil product sales of approximately 546,000 b/d (2018: 458,000 b/d; 
2017: 596,000 b/d).
[D]
 R
eported volumes in 2019 include the Shell joint ventures sales volumes from key countries.
Strategic Report

76
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Chemicals sales volumes [A]
Thousand tonnes
2019 2018 2017
Europe
Base chemicals 3,666 4,069 4,059
Intermediates and others 1,872 1,994 2,056
Total 5,538 6,063 6,115
Asia
Base chemicals 1,057 2,140 2,515
Intermediates and others 2,848 3,082 3,243
Total 3,905 5,222 5,758
Oceania
Base chemicals – – –
Intermediates and others – – –
Total – – –
Africa
Base chemicals – – –
Intermediates and others – – –
Total – – –
Americas
Base chemicals 3,261 3,842 3,839
Intermediates and others 2,519 2,517 2,527
Total 5,780 6,359 6,366
Total product sales
Base chemicals 7,9 8 4 10,051 10,413
Intermediates and others 7, 2 3 9 7, 5 9 3 7, 8 2 6
Total 15,223 17, 6 4 4 18,239
[A] E xcludes feedstock trading and by-products.
DOWNSTREAM continued
Strategic Report

77
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
MANUFACTURING PLANTS AT DECEMBER 31, 2019
Refineries in operation
Thousand barrels/calendar day, 100% capacity [B]
Location Asset class
Shell interest 
(%) [A]
Crude 
distillation 
capacity
Thermal 
cracking/ 
visbreaking/ 
coking
Catalytic 
cracking
Hydro 
 cracking
Europe
Denmark Fredericia 100 68 39 – –
Germany Miro [C] 32 287 36 87 –
Rheinland  100 325 44 – 80
Schwedt [C] 38 214 40 53 –
Netherlands Pernis  100 405 23 48 82
Asia
Philippines Tabangao 55 95 31 – –
Singapore Pulau Bukom
 100 463 72 34 54
Africa
South Africa Durban [C]
36 165 22 33 –
Americas
Argentina Buenos Aires [C]
 50 99 18 20 –
Canada
Alberta Scotford
100 92 – – 74
Ontario Sarnia 100 78 4 19 9
USA
California Martinez [D]
100 144 43 65 37
Louisiana Convent 100 239 – 83 49
Norco 100 229 26 108 39
Texas Deer Park  50 312 82 68 53
Washington Puget Sound  100 137 22 52 –
[A] S hell interest is rounded to the nearest whole percentage point; Shell share of production capacity may differ.
[B]
 C
alendar day capacity is the maximum sustainable capacity adjusted for normal unit downtime.
[C]
 N
ot operated by Shell.
[D]
 T
he sale of the Martinez refinery was concluded on February 1, 2020.
 I ntegrated refinery and chemical complex. 
 R efinery complex with cogeneration capacity.  
 R efinery complex with chemical unit(s).
Strategic Report

78
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
DOWNSTREAM continued
Major chemical plants in operation [A]
Thousand tonnes/year, Shell share capacity [B]
Location Ethylene
Styrene 
monomer
Ethylene 
glycol
Higher 
olefins [C]
Additional 
products
Europe
Germany Rheinland 315 – – – A
Netherlands Moerdijk 971 815 153 – A, I
UK Mossmorran [D] 415 – – – –
Asia
China Nanhai [D] 1,100 650 415 – A, I, P
Singapore Jurong Island 281 1,069 1,159 – A, I, P, O
Pulau Bukom 1,149 – – – A, I
Americas
Canada Scotford – 475 548 – A, I
USA Deer Park 836 – – – A, I
Geismar – – 400 1,390 I
Norco 1,432 – – – A
Total 6,499 3,009 2,675 1,390
[A] M ajor chemical plants are large integrated chemical facilities, typically producing a range of chemical products from an array of feedstocks, and are a core part of our global Chemicals business.
[B]
 S
hell share of capacity of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates (Shell and non-Shell-operated), excluding capacity of the Infineum additives joint ventures.
[C]
 H
igher olefins are linear alpha and internal olefins (products range from C4 to C2024).
[D]
 N
ot operated by Shell.
A A romatics, lower olefins.  
I 
Intermediates. 
P P
olyethylene, polypropylene. 
O 
Other.
Other chemical locations [A]
Location Products
Europe
Germany Karlsruhe A
Schwedt A
Netherlands Pernis A, I, O
Americas
Argentina Buenos Aires I
Canada Sarnia A, I
USA Martinez O
Mobile A
Puget Sound I
[A] Other chemical locations reflect locations with smaller chemical units, typically serving more local markets.
A A romatics, lower olefins.  
I 
Intermediates. 
O 
Other.
Strategic Report

79
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
CORPORATE
Earnings 
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Segment earnings (3,273) (1,479) (2,416)
Comprising:
Net interest and investment expense [A] (3,425) (2,192) (2,413)
Net foreign exchange losses [B] (67) (67) (292)
Taxation and other [C] 219 780 289
[A] M ainly Shell’s interest expense (excluding accretion expense) and interest income, together with the Shell share of joint ventures and associates’ net interest expense, and net gains on sales from 
Shell insurance entities’ portfolio of debt securities.
[B]
 O
n Shell’s financing activities, together with the Shell share of joint ventures and associates’ net foreign exchange gains/(losses) on financing activities.
[C]
 O
ther earnings mainly comprise headquarters and central functions’ costs not recovered from business segments, and net gains on sale of properties.
OVERVIEW
The Corporate segment covers the non-operating activities supporting 
Shell. It comprises Shell’s holdings and treasury organisation, its 
self-insurance activities and its headquarters and central functions. All 
finance expense and income as well as related taxes are included in the 
Corporate segment earnings rather than in the earnings of the business 
segments.
The holdings and treasury organisation manages many of the Corporate 
entities and is the point of contact between Shell and external capital 
markets. It conducts a broad range of transactions, from raising debt 
instruments to transacting foreign exchange. Treasury centres in London 
and Singapore support these activities.
Headquarters and central functions provide business support in the areas 
of communications, finance, health, human resources, information 
technology, legal services, real estate and security. They also provide 
support for the shareholder-related activities of the Company. The central 
functions are supported by business service centres located around the 
world, which process transactions, manage data and produce statutory 
returns, among other services. The majority of the headquarters and 
central-function costs are recovered from the business segments. Those 
costs that are not recovered are retained in Corporate.
EARNINGS 2019-2017
Segment earnings in 2019 were a loss of $3,273 million, compared with a 
loss of $1,479 million in 2018 and a $2,416 million loss in 2017 .
Net interest and investment expense increased by $1,233 million 
compared with 2018. This was primarily due to the introduction of IFRS 16 
(Page 195, Note 2) and reduced capitalised interest. In 2018, net interest 
and investment expense decreased by $221 million compared with 2017 . 
This was due to a decrease in interest expense due to higher capitalised 
interest, coupled with higher interest income from increases to both cash 
levels and higher interest rates. 
The Corporate segment includes net foreign exchange gains/(losses) from 
financing positions. Net foreign exchange gains/(losses) generally relate 
to the impact of changes in exchange rates on non-functional currency 
loans and cash balances in operating companies. In 2019 and 2018, 
unfavourable exchange rate movements resulted in a net foreign 
exchange loss. 
Taxation and other earnings decreased by $561 million in 2019, 
compared with 2018, due to reduced tax credits from financing and 
one-off charges. In 2018, taxation and other earnings increased by $491 
million compared with 2017 , due to increased tax credits from foreign 
exchange losses, which were partially offset by increased corporate 
expenses and depreciation charges. 
SELF-INSURANCE
We mainly self-insure our risk exposure, and capital is set aside to meet 
self-insurance obligations (see “Risk factors” on page 34). We seek to 
ensure that the capital held to support the self-insurance obligations is at a 
level at least equivalent to what would be held in the third-party insurance 
market. Periodically, surveys of key assets are undertaken that provide 
risk-engineering knowledge and best practices to Shell subsidiaries with 
the aim of reducing their exposure to hazard risks. Actions identified 
during these surveys are monitored to completion.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND CYBER-SECURITY
Given our digitalisation efforts and increasing reliance on information 
technology (IT) systems for our operations, we continuously monitor 
external developments and actively share information on threats and 
security incidents. Shell employees and contract staff are subject to 
mandatory courses and regular awareness campaigns aimed at 
protecting us against cyber threats. We periodically test and adapt 
cyber-security response processes and seek to enhance our security 
monitoring capability.
Given our dependence on IT systems for our operations and the increasing 
role of digital technologies across our business, we are aware that 
cyber-security attacks could cause significant harm to Shell in the form of 
loss of productivity, loss of intellectual property, regulatory fines and/or 
reputational damage. As a result, we continuously measure and, where 
required, further improve our cyber-security capabilities to reduce the 
likelihood of successful cyberattacks. Our cyber-security capabilities are 
embedded into our IT systems and our IT landscape is protected by 
various detective and protective technologies. The identification and 
assessment capabilities are built into our support processes and adhere 
to industry best practices. The security of IT services, operated by external 
IT companies, is managed through contractual clauses and additionally 
through formal supplier assurance reports for critical IT services.
Shell is frequently subject to cyberattacks. In 2019, none of these events 
led to breaches of our business-critical IT landscape and, as such, did not 
result in any material business impact. When significant incidents occur, 
they are followed up with a thorough root-cause analysis and, if needed, 
will result in appropriate follow-up actions.
  S ee “Risk factors” on page 35.
BRAND VALUE
According to the Brand Finance Global 500 2020 – the annual report 
on the world’s most valuable and strongest brands published by leading 
brand valuation consultancy Brand Finance at the World Economic Forum 
in Davos this January, Shell’s brand value was estimated at $47 .5 billion, 
up 12% compared to the previous year and 55% versus 2015. The report 
also shows Shell’s brand rating strengthening from AAA- to AAA.
Strategic Report

80
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
We manage our businesses to deliver strong cash flows to fund investment 
for profitable growth. Our aim is that, across the business cycle, “cash in” 
(including cash from operations and divestments) at least equals “cash 
out” (including capital expenditure, interest and dividends), while 
maintaining a strong balance sheet. In 2020, our priorities for applying 
our cash are expected to be the servicing and reduction of debt 
commitments, payment of dividends, followed by a balance of 
capital investment and share buybacks.
Shell Pecten flag.
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY
Despite weaker commodity prices over the course of 2019, the Shell 
Group generated cash flow from operations of $42.2 billion and free cash 
flow of $26.4 billion, supporting continued progress of the share buyback 
programme which commenced in 2018. $10.2 billion share buybacks were 
completed in 2019. Gearing increased to 29.3% at December 31, 2019, 
comparable with 25.0% on an IAS 17 basis (2018: 20.3%). Gearing is a 
key measure of Shell’s capital structure and across the business cycle, 
we aim to return to a gearing level within a range of 15-25%. Note 14 
to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on pages 216-219 provides 
information on our debt arrangements, including gearing and net 
debt definitions.
LIQUIDITY
We satisfy our funding and working capital requirements from the cash 
generated from our operations, the issuance of debt and divestments. In 
2019, access to the international debt capital markets remained strong, 
with our debt principally financed from these markets through central 
debt programmes consisting of:
 ■ a $10 billion global commercial paper (CP) programme, with 
maturities not exceeding 270 days; 
 ■ a $10 billion US CP programme, with maturities not exceeding 
397 days; 
 ■ an unlimited Euro medium-term note (EMTN) programme (also 
referred to as the Multi-Currency Debt Securities Programme); and 
 ■ an unlimited US universal shelf (US shelf) registration.
All these CP, EMTN and US shelf issuances are issued by Shell 
International Finance B.V., the issuance company for Shell, with its 
debt being guaranteed by Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Company).
We also maintain committed credit facilities, which were increased and 
extended in December 2019 with $2 billion now expiring in 2020 and 
$8 billion in 2024. Each facility includes two one-year extension options 
at the discretion of each lender. Both remained undrawn at December 31, 
2019. These facilities and internally available liquidity provide back-up 
coverage for our CP programmes. Other than certain borrowing by local 
subsidiaries, we do not have any other committed credit facilities.
Our total debt increased by $19.6 billion, of which $15.7 billion was due to 
the impact of IFRS16, to $96.4 billion at December 31, 2019. The total debt 
excluding leases will mature as follows: 15% in 2020; 8% in 2021; 7% in 
2022; 7% in 2023; and 63% in 2024 and beyond. The portion of debt 
maturing in 2020 is expected to be repaid from a combination of cash 
balances, cash generated from operations, divestments and the issuance 
of new debt.
In 2019, we issued $4 billion of bonds under our US shelf registration and 
€3 billion under our EMTN programme. Periodically, for working capital 
purposes, we issued CP. We believe our working capital is sufficient for 
current requirements.
While our subsidiaries are subject to restrictions, such as foreign 
withholding taxes on the transfer of funds in the form of cash dividends, 
loans or advances, such restrictions are not expected to have a material 
impact on our ability to meet our cash obligations.
MARKET RISK AND CREDIT RISK
We are affected by the global macroeconomic environment as well as 
financial and commodity market conditions. This exposes us to treasury 
and trading risks, including liquidity risk, market risk (interest rate risk, 
foreign exchange risk and commodity price risk) and credit risk. See 
“Risk factors” on page 18 and Note 19 to the “Consolidated Financial 
Statements” on pages 227-231. The size and scope of our businesses 
require a robust financial control framework and effective management 
of our various risk exposures.
We utilise various financial instruments for managing exposure to 
commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements. 
Our treasury and trading operations are highly centralised and seek 
to manage credit exposures associated with our substantial cash, 
commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate positions. Our portfolio 
of cash investments is diversified to avoid concentrating risk in any one 
instrument, country or counterparty. Other than in exceptional cases, the 
use of external derivative instruments is confined to specialist trading and 
central treasury organisations that have appropriate skills, experience, 
supervision, control and reporting systems. Credit risk policies are in place 
to ensure that sales of products are made to customers with appropriate 
creditworthiness, and include detailed credit analysis and monitoring of 
customers against counterparty credit limits. Where appropriate, netting 
arrangements, credit insurance, prepayments and collateral are used 
to manage credit risk. We maintain a committed credit facility. 
Management believes it has access to sufficient debt funding sources 
(capital markets) and to undrawn committed borrowing facilities to 
meet foreseeable requirements. 
Strategic Report

81
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
PENSION COMMITMENTS
We have substantial pension commitments, the funding of which is subject 
to capital market risks (see “Risk factors” on page 33). We address key 
pension risks in a number of ways. Principal among these is the Pensions 
Forum, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, which oversees Shell’s input 
to pension strategy, policy and operation. A risk committee supports the 
forum in reviewing the results of assurance processes in respect to 
pensions risks. In general, local trustees manage the funded defined 
benefit pension plans, with contributions paid based on independent 
actuarial valuations in accordance with local regulations. Our total 
employer contributions to funded and unfunded defined benefit pension 
plans were $1.5 billion in 2019 and are estimated to be $0.7 billion in 
2020. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements at page 223.
Capitalisation table
$ million
December 
31, 2019
December 
31, 2018
Equity attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 186,476 198,646
Current debt 15,064 10,134
Non-current debt 81,360 66,690
Total debt [A] 96,424 76,824
Total capitalisation 282,900 275,470
[A] O f total debt, $65.7 billion (2018: $62.7 billion) was unsecured and $30.7 billion (2018: 
$14.1 billion) was secured. See Note 14 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on 
pages 191-194 for further disclosure on debt. 
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Cash flow from operating activities in 2019 was an inflow of $42.2 billion, 
compared with $53.1 billion in 2018, mainly due to lower earnings and 
an unfavourable working capital impact. The increase in cash flow from 
operating activities in 2018, compared with $35.7 billion in 2017 , was 
mainly due to higher earnings and a favourable working capital impact.
Cash flow from investing activities in 2019 was an outflow of $15.8 billion, 
compared with an outflow of $13.7 billion in 2018. The increased cash 
outflow was mainly due to lower proceeds from the sale of equity 
securities, partly offset by higher proceeds from sale of assets in 2019. 
The increased cash outflow in 2018 compared with $8.0 billion in 2017 
was mainly due to lower proceeds from the sale of assets and securities 
in 2018.
Cash flow from financing activities in 2019 was an outflow of $35.2 
billion, compared with outflows of $32.5 billion in 2018 and $27 .1 billion 
in 2017 . In 2019, this included payment of dividends to Royal Dutch Shell 
plc shareholders of $15.2 billion (2018: $15.7 billion; 2017: $10.9 billion), 
net repayment of debt of $3.4 billion (2018: $8.3 billion; 2017: $11.8 
billion), repurchases of shares of $10.2 billion (2018: $3.9 billion) and 
interest paid of $4.6 billion (2018: $3.6 billion; 2017: $3.6 billion).
Cash and cash equivalents were $18.1 billion at December 31, 2019 
(2018: $26.7 billion; 2017: $20.3 billion).
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
The most significant factors affecting our cash flow from operating 
activities are earnings, which are mainly impacted by: realised prices 
for crude oil, natural gas and LNG; production levels of crude oil, 
natural gas and LNG; refining and marketing margins; and movements 
in working capital.
The impact on earnings from changes in market prices depends on: the 
extent to which contractual arrangements are tied to market prices; the 
dynamics of production-sharing contracts; the existence of agreements 
with governments or state-owned oil and gas companies that have limited 
sensitivity to crude oil and natural gas prices; tax impacts; and the extent 
to which changes in commodity prices flow through into operating costs. 
Changes in benchmark prices of crude oil and natural gas in any 
particular period therefore provide only a broad indicator of changes in 
our Integrated Gas and Upstream earnings in that period. In the longer 
term, replacement of proved oil and gas reserves will affect our ability 
to maintain or increase production levels, which in turn will affect our 
earnings and cash flows. Changes in any one of a range of factors, 
derived from either within the industry or the broader economic 
environment, can influence refining and marketing margins. The precise 
impact of any such changes depends on how the oil markets respond to 
them. The market response is affected by factors such as: whether the 
change affects all crude oil types or only a specific grade; regional 
and global crude oil and refined products inventories; and the collective 
speed of response of refiners and product marketers in adjusting their 
operations. As a result, margins fluctuate from region to region and 
from period to period.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT AND CASH CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
The level of capital investment in 2019 and 2018 reflects our discipline, 
focus and capital efficiency. 
Capital investment [A]
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Integrated Gas 6,706 4,259 3,921
Upstream 11,075 12,785 13,160
Downstream 10,542 7, 5 6 5 6,418
Corporate 465 269 157
Total capital investment 28,788 24,878 26,655
[A] 2 018 and 2017 as revised. See “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” on pages 279-280.
With effect from January 1, 2019, cash capital expenditure was introduced 
to monitor investing activities on a cash basis, excluding items such as 
lease additions which do not necessarily result in cash outflows in the 
period. The capital discipline demonstrated in 2019 allowed us to maintain 
our cash capital expenditure in line with the $24-29 billion range. 
Cash capital expenditure
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Integrated Gas 4,299 3,819 3,616
Upstream 10,277 12,582 11,670
Downstream 8,926 7, 4 0 8 6,090
Corporate 418 269 157
Total cash capital expenditure 23,919 24,078 21,533
Strategic Report

82
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES continued
Cash flow information [A]
$ billion
2019 2018 2017
Cash flow from operating activities excluding working capital movements
Integrated Gas 14.8 16.3 8.7
Upstream 20.5 21.9 16.3
Downstream 11.9 10.8 12.6
Corporate (0.3) 0.7 0.3
Total 47. 0 49.7 37.9
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (2.6) 2.8 (2.1)
(Increase)/decrease in current receivables (0.9) 2.0 (2.6)
Increase/(decrease) in current payables (1.2) (1.3) 2.4
(Increase)/decrease in working capital (4.8) 3.4 (2.3)
Cash flow from operating activities 42.2 53.1 35.7
Cash flow from investing activities (15.8) (13.7) (8.0)
Cash flow from financing activities (35.2) (32.5) ( 2 7.1)
Currency translation differences relating to cash and cash equivalents 0.1 (0.4) 0.6
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (8.7) 6.4 1.2
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 26.7 20.3 19.1
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 18.1 26.7 20.3
[A] S ee the “Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows” on page 194. 
DIVIDENDS
Our policy is to grow the dollar dividend per share through time, in line 
with our view of our underlying earnings and cash flow. When setting the 
dividend, the Board of Directors looks at a range of factors, including the 
macroeconomic environment, the current balance sheet, future investment 
plans and existing commitments. We returned $15.2 billion to our 
shareholders through dividends in 2019.
The fourth quarter 2019 interim dividend of $0.47 per share will be 
payable to shareholders on the register at February 14, 2020. See Note 
23 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on page 235. The Board 
expects that the first quarter 2020 interim dividend will be $0.47 
per share, equal to the US dollar dividend per share for the same 
quarter in 2019.
PURCHASES OF SECURITIES
On July 26, 2018, the Company announced the commencement of a 
share buyback programme of at least $25 billion, subject to further 
progress with debt reduction and oil price conditions. This was in 
accordance with the authority granted by shareholders at the 2018 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) for the Company to repurchase up to a 
maximum of 10% of its issued ordinary shares, excluding treasury shares 
(834 million ordinary shares). At the 2019 AGM, shareholders granted a 
renewal of this authority, to repurchase up to a maximum of 815 million 
ordinary shares, such authority to expire at the earlier of the close of 
business on August 21, 2020 and the end of the 2020 AGM. As at 
December 31, 2019, 445 million A shares with a nominal value of €31 
million ($38 million) and 16 million B shares with a nominal value of €1 
million ($1 million) (5.85% of the Company’s total issued share capital at 
December 31, 2019) had been cumulatively purchased and cancelled 
since the beginning of this programme, for a total cost of $14.1 billion 
including expenses, at an average price of $30.67 per share. As at 
December 31, 2019, 647 million ordinary shares could still be repurchased 
under the current AGM authority. The purpose of the share repurchases 
in 2018 and 2019, and in the period ended January 24, 2020, was to 
reduce the issued share capital of the Company. A new resolution will be 
proposed at the 2020 AGM to renew the authority for the Company to 
purchase its own share capital, up to specified limits, for a further year. 
This proposal will be described in more detail in the 2020 Notice of 
Annual General Meeting. 
Shares are also purchased by the employee share ownership trusts 
and trust-like entities (see the “Directors’ Report” on page 104-171) to 
meet delivery commitments under employee share plans. All share 
purchases are made in open-market transactions.
The table below provides information on purchases of shares in 2019, 
and in the period ended January 24, 2020, by the Company and 
affiliated purchasers. Purchases in euros and sterling are converted 
into dollars using the exchange rate on each transaction date.
Strategic Report

83
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Purchases of equity securities by issuer and affiliated purchasers in 2019 [A]
Purchase period
A shares B shares A ADSs [B]
Number
purchased 
for employee 
share plans
Number
purchased for 
cancellation [C]
Weighted
average 
price ($)[D]
Number
purchased 
for employee 
share plans
Number 
purchased for 
cancellation [C]
Weighted
average 
price ($)[D]
Number
purchased 
for employee 
share plans
Weighted
average 
price ($)[D]
January – 19,086,716 30.10 – – – 1,854,168 59.21
February – 25,651,490 31.60 – – – – –
March – 2 7, 7 9 2 ,91 3 31.38 – – – 83,349 63.45
April 231,910 16,918,437 32.24 95,430 – 31.48 – –
May – 29,386,861 31.86 – – – – –
June – 20,578,030 31.97 20,830 33.49 30,178 65.95
July 141,555 29,200,419 32.31 – – – – –
August – 26,663,906 28.47 – 9,701,283 28.02 – –
September 1,650,000 31,947,755 28.63 709,388 1,787 ,000 2 7. 7 0 402,032 58.16
October 4,413,134 26,563,443 29.09 1,933,105 – 29.06 913,430 5 7.9 8
November 4 , 0 67,1 3 3 35,836,732 29.67 1,628,144 – 29.48 1,314,922 59.21
December 1,119,733 30,475,077 29.00 979,363 4,591,341 28.30 200,047 5 7. 8 3
Total 2019 11,623,465 320,101,779 30.37 5,366,260 16,079,624 28.28 4,798,126 58.95
January – 23,206,521 [E] 29.63 – – – 1,003,452 59.76
Total 2020 – 23,206,521 29.63 – – – 1,003,452 59.76
[A] R eported as at settlement date. 
[B]
 A
merican Depository Shares.
[C] U
nder the share buyback programme.
[D]
 I
ncludes stamp duty and brokers’ commission. 
[E]
 A
s at January 24, 2020, the end of the sixth tranche of the share buyback programme.
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
The table below summarises our principal contractual obligations at December 31, 2019, by expected settlement period. The amounts presented 
have not been offset by any committed third-party revenue in relation to these obligations.
Contractual obligations
$ billion
Less than 1 year
Between 
1 and 3 years
Between 
3 and 5 years
5 years 
and later Total
Debt [A] 10.1 9.9 6.5 38.7 65.2
Leases 7. 3 9.9 7. 6 21.3 46.1
Purchase obligations [B] 24.6 25.1 18.3 48.6 116.6
Other long-term contractual liabilities [C] – 0.4 – 0.7 1.1
Total 42.0 45.3 32.4 109.3 229.0
[A] S ee Note 14 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”on pages 218-219. Debt contractual obligations exclude interest, which is estimated to be $1.7 billion payable in less than one year, 
$3.0 billion between one and three years, $2.6 billion between three and five years, and $14.6 billion in five years and later. For this purpose, we assume that interest rates with respect to variable 
interest rate debt remain constant at the rates in effect at December 31, 2019, and that there is no change in the aggregate principal amount of debt other than repayment at scheduled maturity 
as reflected in the table. Leases definition follows IFRS 16, which was implemented January 1, 2019. Lease contractual obligations include interest. 
[B]
 P
urchase obligations disclosed in the above table exclude commodity purchase obligations that are not fixed or determinable and are principally intended to be resold in a short period of time 
through sale agreements with third parties. Examples include long-term non-cancellable LNG and natural gas purchase commitments and commitments to purchase refined products or crude oil 
at market prices. Inclusion of such commitments would not be meaningful in measuring liquidity and cash flow, as the cash outflows generated by these purchases will generally be offset in the 
same periods by cash received from the related sales transactions. 
[C]
 I
ncludes all obligations included in “Trade and other payables” in “Non-current liabilities” in the “Consolidated Balance Sheet” that are contractually fixed as to timing and amount. In addition to 
these amounts, Shell has certain obligations that are not contractually fixed as to timing and amount, including contributions to defined benefit pension plans (see Note 17 to the “Consolidated 
Financial Statements” on pages 223-225) and obligations associated with decommissioning and restoration (see Note 18 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on page 226).
GUARANTEES AND OTHER OFF-BALANCE SHEET 
ARRANGEMENTS
There were no guarantees and other off-balance sheet arrangements 
at December 31, 2019, or 2018, that were reasonably likely to have 
a material effect on Shell.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO THE ROYAL 
DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST
The results of operations and financial position of the Royal Dutch Shell 
Dividend Access Trust (the Trust) are included in the consolidated results 
of operations and financial position of Shell. Certain condensed financial 
information in respect of the Trust is given below. See “Royal Dutch Shell 
Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements” on pages 251-255.
The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited and BG Group Limited 
have each issued a dividend access share to Computershare Trustees 
(Jersey) Limited (the Trustee). For the years 2019, 2018 and 2017 , the 
Trust recorded income before tax of £5,484 million, £5,328 million, 
and £4,567 million respectively. In each period, this reflected the 
amount of dividends received on the dividend access shares.
At December 31, 2019, the Trust had total equity of £nil (2018: £nil; 
2017: £nil), reflecting cash of £3 million (2018: £3 million; 2017: £2 million) 
and unclaimed dividends of £3 million (2018: £3 million; 2017: £2 million). 
The Trust only records a liability for an unclaimed dividend, and a 
corresponding amount of cash, to the extent that dividend cheque 
payments have not been presented within 12 months, have expired 
or have been returned unpresented.
Strategic Report

84
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY
Our success in business depends on our ability to meet a range 
of environmental and social challenges. We must operate safely 
and manage the effect our activities can have on neighbouring 
communities and wider society. If we fail to do this, we may 
incur liabilities or sanctions, lose business opportunities, harm 
our reputation, or our licence to operate may be impacted.
  S ee “Risk factors” on page 27.
Data in this section are reported on a 100% basis in respect of activities 
where we are the operator. Reporting on this operational control 
basis differs from that applied for financial reporting purposes in the 
“Consolidated Financial Statements” on pages 190-238. Detailed data 
and information on our 2019 environmental and social performance is 
expected to be published in the Shell Sustainability Report in April 2020.
CONTROL FRAMEWORK
The Shell General Business Principles set out our responsibilities to 
shareholders, customers, employees, business partners and society. 
They set the standards for the way we conduct business, with integrity, 
care and respect for people, the protection of the environment and 
mutually beneficial relationships with communities. All ventures that we 
operate must conduct their activities in line with our business principles. 
We aim to minimise the environmental impact of new projects and existing 
operations, and we engage with local communities and non-governmental 
organisations to understand and respond to their concerns. Shell conducts 
an environmental, social and health impact assessment for every major 
project. The definition of major projects considers two categories: 
capacity, including consequences from potential incidents; and cost. This 
helps us to understand and manage the effects our projects could have on 
the surrounding environment and local communities. We have standards 
and a clear governance structure in place to help manage potential 
impacts. We are committed to the safety of our people and contractors. 
The standards for Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Social 
Performance (HSSE & SP) and the scope for application of each of these 
standards is specified in the Shell HSSE & SP Control Framework (CF). 
The CF is made up of a series of mandatory manuals, which are in line 
with the Shell Commitment and Policy on HSSE & SP and the Shell Code 
of Conduct. They are supported by a number of guidance documents and 
complemented by assurance protocols. The CF applies to every Shell 
entity, including all employees and contract staff, and to Shell-operated 
ventures. The CF defines standards and accountabilities at each level of 
the organisation and sets out the procedures and processes people are 
required to follow. We require that all significant HSSE & SP risks 
associated with our business activities are assessed and managed to as 
low as reasonably practicable. Our HSSE & SP functions provide expert 
advice and support for the business. The Process Safety and HSSE & SP 
Assurance team provides assurance on the effectiveness of HSSE & SP 
controls to the Board.
We expect joint ventures not operated by Shell to apply standards 
and principles similar to our own. We support these joint ventures in 
their implementation of our HSSE & SP Control Framework, or of a 
similar framework, and offer to review the effectiveness of their 
implementation. Even if such a review is not carried out, we periodically 
evaluate HSSE & SP risks faced by the ventures which we do not operate. 
If one of these joint ventures does not meet our expectations, we work 
to put remedial action plans in place, in agreement with our partners, 
to improve performance.
Shell aims to work with suppliers that behave in a safe, economically, 
environmentally and socially responsible manner. Our approach to 
suppliers is set out in our Shell General Business Principles and Shell 
Supplier Principles. These principles cover expectations in areas such 
as business integrity, health and safety, environment, and human rights. 
Working with suppliers in this way is central to maintaining a strong 
societal support for our operations.
SAFETY
Safety is central to the responsible delivery of energy. We develop and 
operate our facilities with the aim of preventing any incidents that may 
harm our employees, contract staff or nearby communities, or cause 
damage to our assets or adversely impact the environment. We strive 
to help improve safety performance throughout the energy industry 
by sharing our safety experience and standards with other operators, 
contractors and professional organisations, including the International 
Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) and the Energy Institute. 
Shell’s Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee (SESCo) 
reviews and advises the Board on our safety strategy, policies and 
performance. Safety performance is included in our annual bonus 
scorecard for all our employees.
  S ee also “Directors’ Remuneration Report” on pages 155-163.
HSSE & SP Control Framework
Mandatory
HSSE Policy & Commitment
HSSE & SP Standards
Health Personal Safety
Process Safety Security
Projects Transport
Product
Stewardship 
Social
Performance 
Environment Contractor HSSE
Management 
HSSE Management
System  
Non
Mandatory 
Manuals
Guides
Assurance Protocols
Strategic Report

85
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
How we mitigate
We manage safety risks across our businesses through clear standards, 
controls and compliance systems, combined with a safety-focused culture. 
We strive to reduce risks and to minimise the potential impact of any 
incident. Our standards also apply to any joint ventures we operate. 
We focus on the three areas of safety with the highest risks associated 
with our activities: personal, process, and transport. We ensure that 
people responsible for tasks involving a significant safety hazard have the 
necessary training, skills and competencies. We employ a large number of 
contractors and we work with them to ensure they understand our safety 
requirements. Together we build skills and expertise to improve safety 
performance. We expect everyone working for us to comply with our 12 
mandatory Life-Saving Rules. If employees break these rules, they face 
disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. 
If contract staff break the Life-Saving Rules, they can be removed 
from the worksite.
  S ee also “Control Framework” on page 84.
Personal and process safety
We continue to strengthen the safety culture and leadership among our 
employees and contract staff, with the focus on caring for people. Our 
safety goal is to achieve no harm and no leaks across all our operations. 
We refer to this as our Goal Zero ambition.
We expect everyone working for us to intervene and stop work that 
may appear to be unsafe. In addition to our ongoing safety awareness 
programmes, we hold an annual global safety day to give employees 
and contract staff time to reflect on how to prevent incidents. 
Process safety management is about keeping hazardous substances 
inside pipes, tanks and vessels so they do not cause any harm to people 
or the environment. It starts at the design and construction stage of our 
projects and is implemented throughout the life cycle of these facilities to 
ensure they are safely operated, well-maintained and regularly inspected. 
Our global standards and operating procedures define the controls and 
physical barriers we require to prevent incidents. For example, our offshore 
wells are designed with at least two independent barriers in the direction 
of flow to mitigate the risk of an uncontrolled release of hydrocarbons. We 
regularly inspect, test and maintain these barriers to ensure they meet our 
standards. In the event of a loss of containment such as a spill or a leak, 
we employ independent recovery measures to prevent the release from 
becoming catastrophic. This system of barriers and recovery measures is 
known as a “bow-tie”, a model that visually represents a system where 
personal and process safety hazards are managed through prevention 
and response barriers. Since 2016, we have been working on 
strengthening barriers that involve critical safety tasks carried out by 
frontline staff. We have embedded a set of process safety fundamentals, 
which provide clear guidelines for good operating practice to prevent 
unplanned releases.
We also routinely prepare and practise our emergency response to 
potential incidents such as a spill or a fire. This involves working closely 
with local services and regulatory agencies to jointly test our plans and 
procedures. These tests continually improve our readiness to respond. If an 
incident does occur, we have procedures in place to reduce the impact on 
people and the environment.
Transport safety
Transporting large numbers of people, products and equipment by road, 
rail, sea and air poses safety risks. We develop best-practice standards 
within Shell to find ways of reducing transport safety risks, and work with 
specialist contractors, industry bodies, non-governmental organisations 
and governments.
Shell employees and contractors drove a combined distance of around 
575 million kilometres on business in 2019 in close to 60 countries. We 
run road safety programmes, such as those that promote safe driving 
techniques and behaviour. We require everyone driving more than 7 ,500 
kilometres a year on company business on public roads and those who 
drive in road safety high-risk countries to take a defensive driving course. 
In addition, we run an annual online defensive driving course for all who 
drive on public roads on Shell business. Outside our operations, we also 
work to improve road safety in several communities and countries where 
we operate. For example, in India, we have rolled out a road safety 
campaign that provides truck drivers with free eye tests and free 
prescription glasses.
Safety performance
While we continually work to minimise the likelihood of incidents, some do 
occur. Regrettably, seven people lost their lives while working for Shell in 
2019, compared with two fatalities in 2018.
In 2019, two contractors died in Nigeria when an oil and gas maintenance 
vessel they were travelling on capsized in bad weather. A Shell employee 
died after falling from height into water while a vessel was being moored 
at Shell’s Mormon Island facility in the USA. A Shell employee based at 
Convent Refinery in the USA was fatally injured in a collision on the road 
when driving from the airport after his return from a business conference. 
A Shell employee and a contractor died during a routine and mandatory 
test of the lifeboat launch and retrieval capabilities at the Auger 
tension-leg platform in the US Gulf of Mexico when the lifeboat 
disconnected from the lifting apparatus at height. A roll-over incident 
occurred in Pakistan involving a road tanker which led to one contractor 
being fatally injured.
Road transportation remains a challenging and complex area for 
industries worldwide. After a devastating roll-over incident occurred in 
Pakistan in 2017 , involving a road tanker hired by a company that was 
providing road transport services to Shell Pakistan Limited, Shell Pakistan 
has been working with road transport companies it hires, regulators and 
emergency services in Pakistan to improve safety standards.
We require incidents to be investigated to understand the underlying 
causes, including the technical, behavioural, organisational and human 
elements. We share learnings and implement mitigations at the site and 
in the country and business where the incident took place. We seek to 
translate incident findings into improvements in standards or ways of 
working that can be applied broadly across similar facilities in Shell.
Risk management approach
Threats ConsequencesTOP
EVENT
RECOVERY MEASURESCONTROLS, BARRIERS
Strategic Report

86
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
In 2019, Shell’s Board and Executive Committee spent considerable time 
reflecting on the concerning safety performance, measured by the number 
of fatalities, and what needs to change at Shell to prevent fatalities and all 
other serious incidents. This included carrying out a full review of Shell’s 
safety approach, which covered the effectiveness of current preventative 
tools, such as the Life-Saving Rules and Goal Zero ambition.
Since the early 2000s, we made progress in improving the safety of our 
operations. This was largely due to a stronger safety culture, guided by 
our Goal Zero ambition to achieve no harm and no leaks, more effective 
standards, and requirements such as the Life-Saving Rules. Of all the 
fatalities in recent years, the vast majority have no link to a breach of the 
Life-Saving Rules. But sadly, we have not been able to eliminate all fatal 
incidents involving Shell employees and contractors.
We are now building on our current approach to safety with a more 
consistent focus on the way people, culture, equipment, work systems and 
processes all interact. Many of our fatalities over the last five years were 
down to the complex interaction between these elements. We aim to 
better understand the gap between how we anticipate work will be done 
safely and how the work is actually carried out. We continue to work to 
prevent incidents by maintaining safety barriers and providing training, 
and we acknowledge that people make mistakes and not all incidents 
may be preventable. Therefore, we will focus more on how people can 
“fail safely”, and on our response in the moment to avoid the risk of a 
serious injury. This approach is a philosophical change, which we will 
start to deploy from 2020 onwards for all employees and contractors.
As set out in “Performance indicators” on page 42, our total recordable 
case frequency (injuries per million working hours) was 0.9 in 2019, 
compared with 0.9 in 2018, and there were 130 operational Tier 1 and 
2 process safety events in 2019, compared with 121 in 2018. Detailed 
information on our 2019 safety performance is expected to be 
published in the Shell Sustainability Report in April 2020. 
ENVIRONMENT
We are committed to protecting the environment. For us, being 
responsible means understanding the impact Shell can have on the 
environment and the communities we share it with – before, during and at 
the end of our operations. We aim to make a positive contribution to the 
local environments in which we operate and seek to reduce any potential 
negative environmental impacts. This is why we set ourselves high internal 
environmental standards. These match and, in some cases exceed, local 
regulatory requirements. We aim to continually improve our performance, 
and to prepare to respond to future challenges and opportunities. We 
adhere to external standards and guidelines, such as those developed 
by the World Bank and International Finance Corporation, to inform 
our approach. For us, protecting the environment also means working 
to transform our product mix over time, for example, by expanding the 
choice of lower-carbon products we offer customers. Shell’s Safety, 
Environment and Sustainability Committee (SESCo) reviews and advises 
the Board on our environment strategy, policies and performance.
How we mitigate
Our global environmental standards cover our environmental 
performance, including managing emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG), 
using energy more efficiently, flaring less gas during oil production, 
preventing spills and leaks of hazardous materials, using less fresh water 
and conserving biodiversity wherever we operate. When planning new 
major projects, we carry out detailed environmental, social and health 
impact assessments.
  S ee also “Control Framework” on page 84.
We apply the mitigation hierarchy in our projects and operations to aim 
to minimise our impact on the environment as much as possible. When 
looking at biodiversity, for example, this means that we first aim to avoid 
impacts on biodiversity and ecosystem services. Where avoidance is not 
possible, we aim to minimise our impact. Where our operations have 
affected biodiversity and the communities who rely on biodiversity for 
their livelihoods, we seek to help restore impacted habitats. We look 
for opportunities to make a positive contribution to conservation, also 
known as net-positive impact, where we operate. For example, the 
Shell-operated QGC gas project in Australia manages the Valkyrie 
property, an area with a rich ecosystem, as a biodiversity and carbon 
offset to compensate for clearing vegetation and habitat for the 
development of gas resources. We believe some areas are too sensitive 
to enter, so in 2003, we made the commitment that we will not explore 
for, or develop, oil and gas resources in natural World Heritage Sites.
Another example of how we apply the mitigation hierarchy involves 
water. Ensuring the availability of fresh water is a growing challenge 
in some parts of the world. A combination of increasing demand for 
water resources, growing stakeholder expectations and concerns, and 
water-related legislation may drive actions that affect our ability to secure 
access to fresh water and to discharge water from our operations. We 
manage our water use carefully, and we tailor our use of fresh water to 
local conditions because water constraints affect people at the local or 
regional level. In some cases, we use alternatives to fresh water in our 
operations; these include recycled water, processed sewage water and 
desalinated water. Our QGC project in Australia produces LNG from 
natural gas in the water-scarce region of the Surat Basin in Queensland. 
Water is produced as a natural by-product during the extraction of gas. 
Two water plants treat most of the produced water so that it is suitable for 
use by local farmers, industry and town water suppliers. An assessment of 
risks to water availability is required for each of our facilities and projects 
and, in areas of water scarcity, we develop water-management action 
plans that identify ways to use less fresh water, recycle water and closely 
monitor its use. 
In 2019, our intake of fresh water was 192 million cubic metres, compared 
to 199 in 2018. Around 90% of our fresh water intake was used for 
manufacturing oil products and chemicals, with the rest mainly used for 
oil and gas production. Around 40% of freshwater intake was from public 
utilities, such as municipal water supplies, with the remainder taken from 
surface water such as rivers and lakes (around 51%) and groundwater 
(around 9%).
Detailed information on our 2019 environmental performance is expected 
to be published in the Shell Sustainability Report in April 2020.
  S ee “Climate change and energy transition” on pages 91 
for more information on how we manage our GHG emissions.
SPILLS
Large spills of crude oil, oil products and chemicals associated with our 
operations can adversely impact the environment and wildlife, and result 
in major clean-up costs as well as fines and other damages. They can 
also affect our licence to operate and harm our reputation.
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY continued
Strategic Report

87
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
How we mitigate
We have requirements and procedures designed to prevent spills. We aim 
to design, operate and maintain our facilities so that we avoid spills. To 
further reduce the risk of spills, Shell has routine programmes to maintain 
and improve the reliability of facilities and pipelines. Our business units 
are responsible for organising and executing oil-spill responses in line with 
Shell guidelines and relevant legal and regulatory requirements. All our 
offshore installations have plans in place to respond to spills. These plans 
detail response strategies and techniques, available equipment, and 
trained personnel and contracts. We are able to call upon site-managed 
resources such as containment booms. We are also able to draw upon the 
contracted services of oil-spill response organisations, their containment 
booms, collection vessels, aircraft or other equipment if required for large 
spills. We conduct regular exercises that seek to ensure these plans 
remain effective.
We have further developed our ability to respond to spills to water, and 
we maintain a Global Response Support Network of trained staff to 
support our worldwide response capability. This is also supported by 
our global Oil Spill Expertise Centre, which tests local capability and 
maintains our ability globally to respond to a significant spill into a 
marine environment.
We are a founding member of the Marine Well Containment Company, 
a non-profit industry consortium providing a well-containment response 
system for the Gulf of Mexico. In addition, we are a founding member 
of the Subsea Well Response Project, an industry cooperative effort to 
enhance global well-containment capabilities, which has transitioned 
to Oil Spill Response Limited, an industry consortium.
We also maintain site-specific emergency response plans in the event of 
an onshore spill. Like the offshore response plans, these are designed to 
meet Shell guidelines as well as relevant local legal and regulatory 
requirements. They also provide for the initial assessment of incidents and 
the mobilisation of resources needed to manage them. In the event of spills 
on land, businesses are supported by our global Soil & Groundwater 
Team whose role is to review and implement appropriate remedies such as 
sustainable remediation. The global Soil & Groundwater Team is engaged 
throughout the lifecycle of our assets. For example, during acquisition and 
divestment of assets, they conduct due diligence to identify land 
contamination liabilities. Through research and development initiatives, 
the Soil & Groundwater Team collaborates with regulators in developing, 
modifying, and applying sustainable remediation techniques.
Spills still occur for reasons such as operational failure, accidents or 
unusual corrosion. In 2019, the number of operational spills of more 
than 100 kilograms decreased to 70 from 93 in 2018 (see “Performance 
indicators” on page 44). The weight of operational spills of oil and oil 
products in 2019 was 0.2 thousand tonnes, a decrease from 0.9 thousand 
tonnes in 2018. At the time of publication of this report, there was one spill 
under investigation in Nigeria that may result in adjustments.
Spills in Nigeria
Most oil spills in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria continue to be caused 
by crude oil theft or sabotage of oil and gas production facilities, and 
illegal oil refining, including the distribution of illegally refined products. 
In 2019, about 95% of 164 oil spills of more than 100 kilograms from the 
Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) joint 
venture’s facilities were due to illegal activities by third parties. In 2019, the 
volume of crude oil spills caused by sabotage was 2.0 thousand tonnes 
(157 incidents), compared to 1.6 thousand tonnes (111 incidents) in 2018. 
However, there are instances where spills occur due to operational 
reasons. In 2019, SPDC managed to reduce the volume of operational 
spills of more than 100 kilograms to about 0.03 thousand tonnes of crude 
oil (seven incidents) compared to about 0.4 thousand tonnes of crude oil 
(15 incidents) in 2018. This represents a reduction of about 93% in 
operational spills weight year-on-year.
Irrespective of the cause, SPDC works to clean up and remediate areas 
impacted by spills originating from its facilities. SPDC succeeded in cutting 
the average time to complete recovery of free and/or residual oil from 
about 13 days in 2016 to about seven days in 2019. This entails the 
average time it takes to safely access an impacted site to commence Joint 
Investigation Visits (JIV) with diverse stakeholders including NGOs and 
communities, and clean up oil not mixed with water or soil. Clean-up 
activities include bio-remediation which stimulates microorganisms that 
naturally break down and use carbon-rich oil contamination as a source 
of food and energy, ultimately leading to its removal. Once clean-up 
and remediation operations are completed, the work is inspected and, 
if satisfactory, approved and certified by the Nigerian regulators. In 
case of operational spills, SPDC also pays compensation to people 
and communities impacted.
To reduce the number of operational spills, SPDC is focused on 
implementing its ongoing work programme to appraise, maintain and 
replace key sections of pipelines and flow lines. Over the last eight years, 
about 1,330 kilometres of pipelines and flow lines have been replaced. 
This is managed through a pipeline and flow line integrity management 
system that proactively manages pipeline integrity, puts barriers in place 
where necessary, and recommends when and where pipeline sections 
should be replaced to prevent failures. In 2018, this integrity management 
system was enhanced to manage threats arising from frequent pipeline 
sabotage or vandalism.
SPDC continues to undertake integrated focused initiatives to prevent and 
minimise spills caused by theft and sabotage of its facilities in the Niger 
Delta. In 2019, SPDC continued on-ground surveillance of the SPDC joint 
venture’s areas of operation, including its pipeline network, to mitigate 
third-party interference and ensure that spills are detected and responded 
to as quickly as possible. There are also daily overflights of the most 
vulnerable segments of the pipeline network to identify any new spill 
incidents or illegal activities. SPDC has also implemented anti-theft 
protection mechanisms on key infrastructure, such as wellheads and 
manifolds. The programme to protect well-heads with steel cages 
continues to help deter theft. By end of 2019, 301 cages had been 
installed and another 86 units are planned for installation in 2020, 
including enhanced CCTV for all installed cages. Only three breaches 
out of about 300 registered attempts were successful.
Strategic Report

88
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Since 2012, SPDC has worked with the International Union for 
Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to enhance remediation techniques and 
to protect biodiversity at sites affected by oil spills in SPDC’s areas of 
operation in the Niger Delta. Based on this collaboration, SPDC has 
launched further improvement initiatives to help strengthen its remediation 
and restoration efforts. In 2019, SPDC and IUCN worked together on the 
Niger Delta Biodiversity Technical Advisory Group which also includes 
representatives from the Nigerian Conservation Foundation and 
Wetlands International, to continue to monitor biodiversity recovery 
of remediated sites.
SPDC also works with a range of stakeholders in the Niger Delta to build 
greater trust in spill response and clean-up processes. Local communities 
take part in the remediation work for operational spills.
In certain instances, some non-governmental organisations have also 
participated in joint investigation visits along with government regulators, 
SPDC and members of impacted communities, to establish the cause and 
volume of oil spilled.
SPDC has also implemented several initiatives and programmes to raise 
awareness of the negative impact of crude oil theft and illegal oil refining. 
Examples include community-based pipeline surveillance and the 
promotion of alternative livelihoods through Shell’s flagship youth 
entrepreneurship programme, Shell LiveWIRE.
In 2015, SPDC, on behalf of the SPDC joint venture and the Bodo 
community, signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) granting 
access to SPDC to begin the clean-up of areas affected by two 
operational spills in 2008. The MOU also provided for the selection of 
two international contractors to conduct the clean-up and to be overseen 
by an independent project director. The clean-up project suffered a delay 
in 2016 and most of 2017 due to access challenges from the community. 
After engagement with the Bodo community and other stakeholders over 
two years, beginning in September 2015, and managed by the Bodo 
Mediation Initiative, the first phase of clean-up and remediation activities 
started in September 2017 . The clean-up consists of three phases: 1) 
removal of free-phase surface oil, 2) remediation of soil, and 3) planting of 
mangroves and monitoring. The first phase was completed in August 2018 
and the contract procurement process for phase two was finalised in 2019 
with four remediation contractors having international technical partners 
and two consultancy contractors selected. Mobilisation is expected to 
effectively start in 2020. Prior to engagement on the project, 800 
community workers were medically checked, tested for swimming ability, 
and trained to International Maritime Organization (IMO) Oil Spill 
Response Levels 1 and 2. Field remediation activities commenced in 
November 2019. Should activities continue uninterrupted, phase two (soil 
remediation) is expected to take around 18 months. However, for it to be 
successful, there must be no re-contamination of cleaned-up sites from 
illegal third-party activities, such as crude oil theft and illegal refining.
SPDC remains committed to the implementation of the 2011 United 
Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) Report on Ogoniland. Over 
the last eight years, SPDC has taken action on all, and completed most, of 
the UNEP recommendations addressed specifically to it as operator of the 
joint venture. The UNEP report recommended the creation of an Ogoni 
Trust Fund (OTF) with $1 billion capital, to be co-funded by the Nigerian 
government, the SPDC joint venture and other operators in the area. The 
SPDC joint venture remains fully committed to contributing $900 million as 
its share over five years to the Fund. SPDC JV partners contributed the first 
instalment of $180 million for the clean-up by July 2018 and released the 
second instalment of $180 million in 2019. SPDC assigned a senior 
engineer with project management, contracting, and procurement 
experience to support and enhance the capability within the 
Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project (HYPREP). In November 2018, 
HYPREP awarded contracts for the first set of remediation projects. In 
March 2019, 21 contractors started operations on 21 lots which add up to 
12 of the 67 polluted sites recorded in the UNEP report. At the same time, 
medical outreach and livelihood programmes started. The process to 
select contractors to work on nine additional polluted sites was completed 
in January 2020. Although remediation works continue to progress, 
challenges remain. These include re-pollution, lack of contractor funding, 
land disputes and security issues in Ogoniland. The UNEP continues to 
monitor the success of the clean-up exercise via its observer status at both 
the Governing Council and the Ogoni Trust Fund. Its agencies such as 
UNDP, UNITAR and UNOPS provide services to HYPREP in the area of 
livelihood programmes, training and project services.
HYDRAULIC FRACTURING
Shale oil and gas resources are a critical part of a modern energy system. 
These resources are not only abundant and affordable, but offer options 
to scale up and down investment in the development of these resources. 
According to US Energy Information Administration (EIA) estimates, there 
are 7 ,576.6 trillion cubic feet of unproven technically recoverable wet 
shale gas resources and 418.9 billion barrels of unproven technically 
recoverable tight oil resources spread across 46 countries. We believe 
development of these resources is critical for meeting the energy needs 
of growing societies around the world.
The oil and gas industry has used hydraulic fracturing to unlock tight/shale 
oil and gas resources in vertical wells for decades. In the past 20 years, 
hydraulic fracturing has also been used in horizontal wells to recover 
natural gas and oil. The technology has opened up vast resources that 
were previously thought to be unrecoverable. Hydraulic fracturing has 
been used by the industry in more than 2.5 million oil and gas wells, many 
of them in the USA. Hydraulic fracturing involves pumping a fluid that is 
typically 99.9% water and sand, and around 0.1% chemical additives into 
tight sand or shale rock at high pressure. This creates threadlike fissures – 
typically the diameter of a human hair – in the rock, creating space 
through which the hydrocarbons can flow more easily.
At Shell, we believe we can explore, develop and produce tight/shale 
oil and gas resources safely and responsibly. Our operations are 
underpinned by our Principles for Producing Tights/Shale Oil and Gas 
(known as Onshore Operating Principles) that provide a framework for 
protecting the environment and the communities in which we operate. 
Our operating principles cover safety, air quality, water protection and 
usage, land use and engagement with local communities. We review 
the Onshore Operating Principles annually and update them as new 
technologies, challenges and regulatory requirements emerge. We 
also support appropriate and fit-for-purpose regulations.
The availability and quality of water, the local environmental conditions 
and the regulatory requirements vary from basin to basin. Therefore, we 
develop a tailor-made water management strategy for each of our shale 
assets, identifying short and long-term water needs, options for water 
sourcing, recycling and sharing, options for treatment and disposal, and 
options for transportation and storage. We aim to minimise the use of 
water in our shale operations. Depending on local hydro-geologic 
conditions, we typically use a combination of fresh water, brackish 
groundwater, produced water and waste water. We actively strive to 
reduce and ideally eliminate our freshwater intake for our drilling and 
hydraulic fracturing operations by increasing our recycling capacity 
and using municipal water.
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY continued
Strategic Report

89
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Potable groundwater aquifers are isolated from the hydrocarbon-
producing shale formations by several thousand feet of impermeable rock. 
However, we often need to drill through potable groundwater aquifers 
to reach shale formations. Therefore, we design our drilling, hydraulic 
fracturing and production activities in a way that aims to maintain 
isolation from potable groundwater aquifers. Before we drill a well, we 
conduct a hazard assessment to analyse risks to groundwater aquifers 
and develop control measures to reduce those risks. When we drill, 
we have at least two physical barriers, consisting of steel casing and 
cement, between the well bore and potable groundwater aquifers. 
We continuously monitor wellbore integrity before, during and after 
hydraulic fracturing and during production activities.
Chemical additives are needed in the hydraulic fracturing fluid to carry 
sand, reduce friction and prevent the growth of bacteria. Since 2015, we 
have optimised the composition of our hydraulic fracturing fluids. As a 
result, we have reduced chemical additive volumes by around 50-60%. 
Currently, on a volume basis, about 0.1% of our hydraulic-fracturing fluid 
is chemical additives. We support full disclosure of the chemical additives 
used in hydraulic-fracturing fluids for Shell-operated wells. Find more 
information about our water management practices, such as the “Onshore 
Operating Principles in Action: Water Fact Sheet”, on our webpage.
SEISMICITY
As oil and gas fields mature, seismic activity may increase in certain 
circumstances based on the unique geology of individual fields. For 
example, production from the onshore Groningen gas field in the 
Netherlands is in the process of being closed down due to earthquakes 
induced by the gas production. Some of these earthquakes have caused 
damage to houses and other structures in the region, resulting in 
complaints, claims and lawsuits from local house owners and residents. 
A range of actions have been taken to improve safety, liveability and 
economic prospects in the region. The gas field is operated by the 
Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (NAM, Shell interest 50%). 
NAM is working with the Dutch government and other stakeholders to 
fulfil its obligations to residents of the area, which include compensation 
for damage caused by the earthquakes.
  S ee “Upstream” on page 52.
Overall, we believe there is a relatively low likelihood of hydraulic 
fracturing or produced water disposal well operations inducing seismicity 
that is felt on the surface. Shell, however, still takes precautionary 
measures around induced seismicity, and proactively manages the risk in 
accordance with, and sometimes beyond, regulatory requirements. We 
have added induced seismicity to our Onshore Operating Principles and 
developed internal guidelines that we apply to our shale assets. They 
outline a risk assessment process and provide a framework for risk 
management. Subsurface and surface conditions vary from basin to basin, 
which means that management practices need to reflect the risk profile of 
each basin and provide customised responses to the risks. We support 
fit-for-purpose, science-based state and provincial regulations. Find more 
information about our induced seismicity management practices, such as 
the “Onshore Operating Principles in Action: Induced Seismicity Fact 
Sheet”, on our webpage.
ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS
We are subject to a variety of environmental laws, regulations and 
reporting requirements in the countries where we operate. Infringing any 
of these laws, regulations and requirements could harm our reputation 
and ability to do business, and result in significant costs, including 
clean-up costs, fines, sanctions and third-party claims.
Our ongoing operating expenses include the costs of avoiding 
unauthorised discharges into the air and water, and the safe disposal 
and handling of waste.
We place a premium on developing effective technologies that are also 
safe for the environment. However, when operating at the forefront of 
technology, there is always the possibility that a new technology has 
environmental impacts that were not assessed, foreseen or determined 
to be harmful when originally implemented. While we believe we take 
reasonable precautions to limit these risks, we are subject to additional 
remedial environmental and litigation costs as a result of our operations’ 
unknown and unforeseen impacts on the environment. Although these 
costs have so far not been material to us, no assurance can be given 
that this will always be the case.
SECURITY
Our operations expose us to criminality, civil unrest, activism, terrorism, 
cyber disruption and acts of war that could have a material adverse effect 
on our business (see “Risk factors” on pages 27-36). We seek to obtain the 
best possible information to enable us to assess threats and risks. This 
includes building strong and open relationships with government security 
agencies. Mitigation thereafter includes the strengthening of the security 
of sites, reduction of our exposure as appropriate, journey management, 
information risk management as well as crisis management and business 
continuity measures. We conduct training and awareness campaigns for 
staff, and provide travel advice and 24/7 assistance while travelling. 
The identities of our employees and contract staff and their access to 
our sites and activities, both physical and logistical, are consistently 
verified and controlled. We manage and exercise crisis response 
and management plans.
CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY
In 2019, Shell paid more than $61.3 billion to governments (2018: 
$64.1 billion). We paid $7 .8 billion in income taxes and $5.9 billion 
in government royalties, and collected $47 .6 billion in excise duties, 
sales taxes and similar levies on our fuel and other products on behalf 
of governments. In 2019, Shell spent $44.9 billion (2018: $42.7 billion) on 
goods and services from 29,361 suppliers globally. Find more information 
about our approach to tax and transparency in the Tax Contribution 
Report, and to local content on our webpage.
NEIGHBOURING COMMUNITIES
Engaging with communities is part of our approach to managing human 
rights and providing access to remedy. Our global requirements for social 
performance aim to ensure that we operate in a responsible way, by 
avoiding or minimising the negative social impacts of our operations. They 
also help us maximise the benefits of our activities, such as employment 
and contractual opportunities that can support local economies.
These requirements set clear rules and expectations for how we engage 
with and respect communities that may be impacted by our operations. 
We require Shell-operated major projects and facilities to have a social 
performance plan that defines actions for managing potential negative 
and positive impacts on the communities where they operate. Integral 
to these plans are the identification of the social environment, the 
stakeholders who may be vulnerable to the operations, and an 
appropriate community feedback mechanism for listening and responding 
to queries, or resolving complaints, in a timely manner. We have specific 
requirements to avoid, minimise or mitigate potential impacts on indigenous 
peoples’ traditional lifestyles, cultural heritage or involuntary resettlement.
Strategic Report

90
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY continued
We have a network of about 100 community liaison officers (CLO) 
installed locally to act as a bridge between local communities and our 
businesses. The CLOs man our community centres on workdays, receiving 
visitors to listen to questions or complaints. Members of the community 
can also contact CLOs via dedicated telephone lines. It is their task to take 
any concerns back to the Shell facility and involve people who are best 
placed to take action. We are using a tool based on the United Nations 
Guiding Principles’ criteria to measure the effectiveness of our operational 
community feedback mechanisms. 
For example, in Berat, southern Albania, our activities caused traffic to 
rise, which resulted in dust pollution and caused health concerns for the 
local community. Shell set up a community centre with a CLO who brought 
the concerns to the attention of the Shell Upstream Albania leadership 
team. Three initiatives were implemented: traffic calming measures, dust 
suppression using environmentally friendly chemicals, and increasing the 
frequency of watering to mitigate and minimise the impacts of dust. Find 
more information about our work with communities on our webpage.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Human rights are fundamental to Shell’s core values of honesty, integrity 
and respect for people. Respect for human rights is embedded in our Shell 
General Business Principles and in our Code of Conduct. Our approach 
is informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the core 
conventions of the International Labour Organization and the United 
Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our 
joint-venture partners are expected to implement our control 
framework or an equivalent.
We work closely with other companies and non-governmental 
organisations to improve the way we apply these principles. Our focus 
is on four priority areas where respect for human rights is critical to the 
way we operate: communities, security, labour rights, and supply chain. 
In each of those areas, we have systems in place to identify potential 
impacts and to avoid and mitigate them. For example, our HSSE & SP 
Control Framework contains our mandatory standards and manuals that 
set out how we identify, assess, and manage our impacts on communities 
where we operate – including any impact on human rights. We require 
all our companies and our contractors to respect the human rights of 
our workforce and our neighbouring communities.
One of the Board committees, the Safety, Environment and Sustainability 
Committee, has the responsibility to review the standards, policies and 
conduct of the Company relating to the application of the Shell General 
Business Principles including sustainable development, and review the 
effectiveness of the compliance programme, including compliance with 
the Code of Conduct which includes Shell’s responsibility to respect 
human rights. The overall accountability for sustainability within Shell 
lies with the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Committee. A 
cross-functional Human Rights Working Group advises on and supports 
the implementation and review of our approach to human rights. The 
group includes an external advisor. A steering committee composed of 
senior executives oversees the work of the Human Rights Working Group.
Our approach to due diligence is informed by the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights. Due diligence in each focus area is 
typically exercised in areas where there may be a risk of impact to people, 
and is supported by experts internally. We recognise the role of due 
diligence in bringing our commitments to life. For example, in our supply 
chains, we engage contractors and suppliers deemed to be at higher risk 
for labour rights issues to undertake assessments of their management 
system prior to the award of a contract. Results of these supplier 
assessments are evaluated, and where gaps are found, we may work 
with suppliers and contractors to help them implement corrective action. 
We may also carry out on-site audits or consider terminating contracts 
if serious or persistent shortcomings are found. The most common 
shortcomings found during our supplier assessments typically relate to 
policy rather than performance gaps in the following areas: freely chosen 
employment; child labour avoidance; working hours, wages and benefits; 
dormitory, housing and working conditions; humane treatment, equal 
opportunities and freedom of association; and supply chain and 
performance management. In conjunction with the Shell Supplier 
Principles, Shell companies use a joint industry supplier capability 
assessment delivered in collaboration with other operators. The sharing 
mechanism across the participating parties aims to support the 
improvement of working conditions in our companies’ respective 
supply chains. Find more information about our approach to human 
rights on our webpage.
Strategic Report

91
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION
Shell has long recognised that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from 
the use of fossil fuels are contributing to the warming of the climate 
system. In December 2015, 195 nations adopted the Paris Agreement.
We welcomed the efforts made by governments to reach this global 
climate agreement, which came into force in November 2016. We fully 
support the Paris Agreement’s goal to keep the rise in global average 
temperature this century to well below two degrees Celsius (2°C) above 
pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase 
even further to 1.5°C. In pursuit of this goal, we also support the vision of 
a transition towards a net-zero emissions energy system. Shell agrees with 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 1.5°C special 
report, which states that in order to limit warming to 1.5°C above 
pre-industrial levels, the world economy would need to transform in a 
number of complex and connected ways. Meeting this challenge would 
require an even more rapid escalation in the scale and pace of change 
in the coming decades than was foreseen in the Paris Agreement.
Society faces a dual challenge: how to transition to a low-carbon energy 
future to manage the risks of climate change, while also extending the 
economic and social benefits of energy to everyone on the planet. This is 
an ambition that requires, among other things, changes in the way energy 
is produced, stored, used and made accessible to more people while 
drastically cutting emissions.
We believe that the need to reduce GHG emissions, will continue to be 
an important driver in transforming the energy system in this century. 
This transformation will generate both challenges and opportunities 
for our existing and future portfolio.
We welcome and support efforts, such as those led by the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), to increase transparency 
and to promote investors’ understanding of companies’ strategies to 
respond to the risks and opportunities presented by climate change. We 
believe that companies should be clear about how they plan to be resilient 
in the energy transition. In 2017 , we joined the Oil and Gas Preparer 
Forum, initiated by the TCFD and convened by the World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development. The forum’s objectives are to review the 
current state of climate-related financial disclosures, to identify examples 
of effective disclosure practices and make proposals on how disclosures 
may evolve over time. These examples were summarised and published 
in a report, including reflections from investors, in 2018. The Shell Energy 
Transition Report (SET report), also published in 2018, described the 
energy transition and considered Shell’s resilience against future 
scenarios. The 2018 SET report followed our discussions with the TCFD 
about increasing transparency to help investors understand climate-
related risks and opportunities. Our approach to the energy transition 
as described in the 2018 SET report, in combination with the Shell 
Sustainability Report (expected to be published in April 2020) and 
the Industry Associations Climate Review, aims to provide additional 
information to this Report in responding to TCFD recommendations, 
including discussing the energy transition and Shell’s portfolio resilience. In 
2019, Shell publicly supported the EU Commission’s proposal for the EU to 
achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, the UK government’s target of 
net-zero emissions by 2050, and the Climate Accord in the Netherlands.
OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF CLIMATE 
CHANGE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Climate change and risks resulting from GHG emissions have been 
identified as a significant risk factor for Shell and are managed in 
accordance with other significant risks through the Board and 
Executive Committee.
  “ Other regulatory and statutory information” on page 169.
Shell has a climate change risk management structure in place which 
is supported by standards, policies and controls.
This includes the work of the Board, which discussed a number of matters 
over the year, including environmental topics and investments in new 
business areas, for example, in New Energies. In addition, some of the 
Non-executive Directors received dedicated updates from management 
and external experts on the various business models, opportunities 
and risks of having positions along the power value chain, and the 
opportunities for Shell in the New Energies area. During the annual 
dedicated strategy meeting, the Board reviewed Shell’s Integrated 
Power strategy from first principles, set against the context of the energy 
transition and the external environment, and to see how power can 
create value for Shell.
The Board committees play an important role in assisting the Board with 
regard to governance and management of climate change risks and 
opportunities, as described in “Governance” on page 119.
The role of the Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee (SESCo) 
(formerly the Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee (CSRC)) is to 
review and advise the Board on Shell’s strategy, policies and performance 
in the areas of safety, environment, ethics and reputation against the Shell 
General Business Principles, the Shell Code of Conduct, and the HSSE & 
SP Control Framework. During 2019, the Committee reviewed its purpose 
and updated its terms of reference to ensure it focuses on areas of most 
strategic importance to Shell. This resulted in a name change effective 
from December 2019. The SESCo’s duties comprise, for example, to review 
progress towards meeting Shell’s ambitions regarding climate change, the 
energy transition and its Net Carbon Footprint. The Committee also has a 
duty to advise the Remuneration Committee on metrics relating to 
sustainable development and energy transition. In 2019, the SESCo 
balanced its time between a number of topics, with discussion in depth 
including the energy transition and climate change, Shell’s Net Carbon 
Footprint ambition, and the Company’s environmental and societal licence 
to operate. The SESCo conducted one major site visit in Singapore, where 
the agenda included reviewing Shell’s developing New Energies 
businesses in the country. In 2020, the Committee’s focus will be on safety, 
Shell’s policies and commitments related to climate change, environmental 
performance – for example, in Nigeria and our Canada LNG project – 
and on specific issues such as plastics, methane, and nature-based 
solutions. We will continue to advise the Remuneration Committee 
on metrics concerning sustainability and energy transition.
 F ind more information on the SESCo on page 128.
Strategic Report

92
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Climate change management organogram
CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION continued
The Remuneration Committee (REMCO) is responsible for determining 
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy in alignment with our business strategy. 
In 2019, following recommendations by SESCo, REMCO continued to 
include GHG intensity metrics in annual bonus performance measures 
and targets. In December 2018, Shell announced plans to link executive 
remuneration to short-term targets to reduce the Net Carbon Footprint 
of the energy products we sell, including our customers’ emissions from 
their use of our energy products. In 2019, following discussions with major 
shareholders and based on recommendations from SESCo, REMCO 
decided to add an energy transition condition to the 2019 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP) award. This condition included our first three-year 
target aligned with the trajectory of our long-term Net Carbon Footprint 
ambition. It also featured other measures linked to our strategic ambitions, 
including the growth of Shell’s power business, the commercialisation of 
advanced biofuel technology, and the development of sinks to capture 
and store carbon. See “Directors’ Remuneration Report” on pages 
155-163. The Shell employee scorecard structure for determining 
employees’ annual bonus in 2019 was consistent with the Executive 
Directors’ scorecard. The energy transition condition in the 2019 LTIP 
awards applies to around 150 Senior Executives as well as the Executive 
Directors. The energy transition condition was included again in the 2020 
LTIP awards for Executive Directors and Senior Executives, and will be 
extended to approximately 16,500 employees across the Group who 
receive Performance Share Plan awards. For the 2020 award, the target 
range is a 3-4% reduction in NCF against the 2016 baseline NCF (79 
grams of CO
2 equivalent per megajoule). This target range is aligned with 
the trajectory of our NCF ambition as set out in November 2017 . The 
targets for the other leading energy transition measures are commercially 
sensitive, and will be disclosed retrospectively. Annual updates on our 
progress in relation to measures will be provided.
The Audit Committee has key responsibilities in assisting the Board in 
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to areas such as the 
effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control. 
Any concerns regarding improvement needed are promptly reported 
to the Board.
The CEO is the most senior individual with accountability for climate 
change risk. We have set up several dedicated climate change and 
GHG-related forums at different levels of the organisation where climate 
change issues are addressed, monitored and reviewed. Each Shell entity 
and each Shell-operated venture are responsible for implementing climate 
change policies and strategies.
The Executive Vice President Safety & Environment, a senior manager who 
reports directly to the Projects & Technology Director, is accountable for 
the oversight of GHG issues. This manager’s department includes the 
dedicated Group Carbon team, which is accountable for monitoring 
and examining the strategic implications of climate change for Shell, 
and the impact of developments in governmental policy and regulation. 
The Group Carbon team is responsible for preparing proposed policy 
positions based on analysis within Shell and external input. The team also 
provides advice to Shell companies to ensure consistency in the application 
of our core principles and policy tasks in interactions with policymakers.
Group Carbon also has oversight of Shell’s GHG management 
programme and supports the different lines of business in embedding 
GHG management strategies. The team includes project managers who 
advise the projects on the risks and opportunities of GHG-related issues. 
Risk management at an asset or project level is a structured process of 
identifying and assessing risks; planning and implementing responses; and 
monitoring, improving and closing out action items that have an impact on 
projects’ and assets’ objectives and performance. Shell policy requires 
these projects to obtain approval on abatement plans and targets 
from the Executive Vice President Safety & Environment at defined 
project phases.
[A] O versight of climate change risk management.
[B]
 N
on-executive Directors appointed by the Board to review and advise on sustainability 
policies and practices including climate change.
[C]
 N
on-executive Directors appointed by the Board to oversee the effectiveness of the 
system of risk management and internal control.
[D]
 N
on-executive Directors appointed by the Board to set the remuneration policy in 
alignment with strategy.
[E]
 R
esponsible for implementing Shell’s GHG strategy. They are represented in the Safety 
and Environment Leadership Team.
Reporting to the same manager is the HSSE & SP Assurance and 
Reporting team, which is accountable for the delivery of Shell’s non-
financial reporting and for auditing the businesses’ performance against 
our HSSE & SP Control Framework requirements, which include climate 
change risk management.
  S ee “Environment and society” on pages 84-90.
Further support for embedding GHG management is provided by a 
global risk support team for GHG and energy management. This team 
is a network of subject-matter experts in GHG topics working globally 
across our lines of business. Team members are experts in their relevant 
disciplines, defining improvement areas and sharing good practices 
and experience.
The above-mentioned teams and experts have provided their input 
to shape a set of mandatory manuals and complementary guidance 
documents which are ultimately based on our HSSE & SP Control 
Framework. These documents provide guidance on how to monitor, 
communicate and report changes in the risk environment, and how to 
review the effectiveness of actions taken to manage the identified risks, 
including ways to:
 ■ ensure consistent assessment of climate risk across Shell; 
 ■ clarify expectations for risk management and reporting, including 
roles and responsibilities;
 ■ strengthen decision-making through better visibility and understanding 
of the climate risk by line of business; and
 ■ enable integration of Shell’s reporting.
  Fo r more detail on our definition of risk categories and their relationship 
to different time horizons, see page 96.
Board of Royal 
Dutch Shell plc [A]
Safety, Environmen t 
and Sustainabili ty 
Committee (SESCo) [B]
CEO and Executive
Committee
Executive Vice 
President, Safety & 
Environmen t
Vice President, 
Group Carbon
Businesses and 
Functions [E]
Audit Committee 
(AC) [C]
Remuneration  
Committee 
(REMCO) [D]
Most senior individuals with 
accountability for climate 
change risk management
EVP Steering Team 
Group strategic steer
Safety and Environment 
Leadership Team 
Operational 
implementation steer
Strategic Report

93
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
While monitoring emerging climate change plans, we considered the 
robustness of our activities against a range of scenarios, as referenced in 
our 2018 SET report. We believe our business strategy is resilient to the 
implementation of the Paris Agreement, which is now progressing through 
countries developing their individual NDCs. The emissions from customers 
using Shell energy products are largely covered by these NDCs. The Paris 
Agreement acknowledges that emissions will continue and even grow in 
some parts of the world. It does not stipulate that emissions must fall in all 
sectors or countries simultaneously, or that all actors within the system will 
reduce their emissions at the same time or to the same degree. What is 
important is that overall emissions fall.
OUR PORTFOLIO AND CLIMATE CHANGE
We are seeking cost-effective ways to manage GHG emissions in line 
with our NCF ambition, and we intend to enable customers to make lower-
carbon-intensity choices by bringing lower-carbon-intensity products to 
the market aligned with demand. We seek to contribute to reducing 
global GHG emissions in a number of ways: 
 ■ supplying more natural gas to replace coal for power generation; 
 ■ developing carbon capture and storage (CCS);
 ■ implementing energy-efficiency measures in our operations where 
reasonably practicable; 
 ■ developing new fuels for transport such as advanced biofuels 
and hydrogen; 
 ■ maintaining a focus on using natural gas and renewable electricity 
to generate power; and
 ■ working with nature-based solutions.
To support this, we continue to advocate the introduction of effective 
government-led carbon pricing mechanisms.
We are committed to reducing our GHG intensity, but with energy 
demand increasing and the number of easily accessible oil and gas 
reservoirs declining, we may develop resources that require more energy 
and advanced technologies to produce. If our production becomes more 
energy intensive, this could result in an associated increase in direct GHG 
emissions from our upstream facilities. We continue to invest in long-range 
research and carbon-abatement technologies to provide technical 
solutions to address these challenges.
Some governments have introduced carbon pricing mechanisms, 
which we believe can be an effective measure to reduce GHG emissions 
across the economy at lowest overall cost to society. We expect more 
governments to follow. However, we believe measures taken by 
governments to control national energy transitions may also have 
unintended consequences. For example, the prohibition of one technology 
may encourage other substitute technologies that result in an increase in 
overall GHG emissions. See “Risk factors” on page 30.
NATURAL GAS
According to the IEA, more than 40% of global CO
2 emissions in 2015 
came from electricity and heat generation. For many countries, using gas 
instead of coal in power generation can make a large contribution, at 
lower cost, to meeting GHG emission reduction objectives. We expect 
that, in combination with renewables and the use of CCS, natural gas will 
be essential in significantly lowering GHG emissions. Natural gas made 
up more than half of Shell’s proved reserves at the end of 2019. As a 
leader in liquefied natural gas (LNG), and with our conventional gas 
assets and technologies for recovering gas from tight-rock formations, we 
can supply natural gas to replace coal for power generation. Natural gas 
can also act as a partner for intermittent renewable energy, such as solar 
and wind, to maintain a steady supply of electricity, because gas-fired 
plants can start and stop relatively quickly. 
This structured approach supports the prioritisation of risks and 
opportunities. We actively monitor the GHG emissions of all our assets, 
as well as the lifecycle of our products, to quantify future regulatory 
costs related to GHG or other climate-related policies. This allows us 
to effectively prioritise areas of greater concern and assess mitigation 
options and the most viable responses. Climate-related risks are 
analysed in context of other identified material risks.
  S ee “Risk factors” on pages 27-36.
We review our portfolio annually to identify emerging risks from changing 
GHG regulatory regimes and physical conditions. As described in our 
Shell Energy Transition Report (2018), we tested the resilience of our 
portfolio against externally published future pathways, including a 
low-emissions pathway. In 2017 , we announced a long-term ambition to 
reduce the Net Carbon Footprint of the energy products we sell, in step 
with society’s drive to reduce GHG emissions as it moves towards the goal 
of the Paris Agreement. We aim to reduce the Net Carbon Footprint of the 
energy products we sell – expressed in grams of CO
2 equivalent per 
megajoule consumed – by around half by 2050, and as an interim step, 
by 2035, we aim for a reduction of around 20% compared with our 2016 
level, both predicated on societal progress. This was followed by an 
announcement, in 2018, of our intention to set short-term targets 
in line with that ambition.
Meeting the Net Carbon Footprint ambition requires evolving our 
portfolio over the medium to longer term, to reduce the carbon intensity 
of the products that we sell. We plan for this by developing ideas about 
how we would like to shape our future portfolio to meet our ambition. 
These ideas then guide investment decisions. Within the selected 
portfolio mixes, we develop individual projects and aim to make 
them as resilient as possible to the future scenarios.
To assess the resilience of new projects, we consider the potential costs 
associated with operational GHG emissions. In 2018, to help us stay in 
step with society’s progress toward the goals of the Paris Agreement, we 
switched from using a flat project screening value (PSV) of $40/tonne of 
GHG emissions, to country-specific estimates of future carbon costs. By 
2050, our carbon cost estimates for all countries increase to $85/tonne 
of GHG emissions. These estimates were developed using the current 
Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) submitted by countries 
as part of the Paris Agreement. They are the first NDCs under the Paris 
Agreement and are scheduled to be revised every five years. Therefore, 
as countries update their NDCs, we expect to update our estimates too. 
Accordingly, we believe they are a more accurate reflection of society’s 
current implementation of the Paris Agreement. The UN believes the 
current NDCs are consistent with limiting the average global temperature 
rise to around three degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. In coming 
decades, we expect countries to tighten these NDCs to meet the goals of 
the Paris Agreement. We further test the robustness of our high-emitting 
projects by using long-term carbon cost estimates that are consistent 
with limiting the average global temperature rise to well below two 
degrees Celsius.
Projects under development that are expected to have a material 
GHG footprint must meet carbon performance standards or industry 
benchmarks to allow them to compete and prosper in a more GHG-
constrained future. These assessments can lead to projects being stopped, 
designs being changed, and potential GHG mitigation investments 
being identified, in preparation for when regulation would make these 
investments commercially compelling. Our approach continues to 
evolve with the shifting policy landscape and the differing pace 
of energy transitions in different regions.
Strategic Report

94
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Methane is a potent greenhouse gas. When released into the 
atmosphere, it has a much higher global warming impact than CO2. 
Natural gas consists mainly of methane. Efforts to address climate change 
therefore require the industry to reduce both deliberate and unintended 
methane emissions from the gas value chain, from production to the 
final consumer.
The IEA estimates that natural gas operations have an average methane 
leakage rate of 1.7%. At this rate, natural gas emits between 45% and 
55% less GHG emissions than coal when burnt at a power plant. Higher 
levels of methane emissions, however, would reduce this benefit, and we 
recognise the importance of assessing, and where possible, reducing 
methane emissions. Methane from the flaring and venting of gas (including 
equipment venting) in our upstream oil and gas operations was the largest 
contributor to our reported methane emissions in 2019. We are working to 
reduce methane emissions from these sources by reducing the overall level 
of flaring and venting. We also continue to implement leak detection and 
repair programmes across our sites to identify unintended losses and 
high-emission equipment, such as high-bleed pneumatic devices, so they 
can be replaced or repaired. We continue to work on confirming that we 
have identified all potential methane sources and that we have reported 
our emissions from these sources in line with regulations and industry 
standards. In 2017 , we joined the Climate and Clean Air Coalition Oil & 
Gas Methane Partnership. It brings together industry, governments and 
non-governmental organisations to improve quantification of methane 
emissions globally and work towards reducing them. Also in 2017 , Shell 
led the development of a set of non-binding Methane Guiding Principles 
for reducing methane emissions across the natural gas value chain. The 
principles focus on: continually reducing methane emissions; advancing 
strong performance across gas value chains; improving accuracy of 
methane emissions data; advocating sound policies and regulations on 
methane emissions; and increasing transparency. Shell has been involved 
in the development of all actions associated with the guiding principles, 
including the development of a major global outreach programme. 
The objective is to address a gap in knowledge on managing methane 
emissions, and thereby provide high-quality educational material and 
courses on methane science, methane reduction strategies and planning, 
measurement techniques, technology, policy, and where to get guidance 
and support. The publicly accessible programme consists of two courses: 
an executive course targeting senior managers and executives, and 
masterclasses for managers of frontline staff.
Shell is also a member of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), a 
CEO-led effort to lead the industry’s response to climate change. One of 
OGCI’s focus areas is methane management. In 2018, OGCI announced 
a target to reduce the collective average methane intensity of its members’ 
aggregated upstream gas and oil operations by one fifth, to below 0.25% 
by 2025, with an ambition to achieve 0.2%, corresponding to a reduction 
of one third.
In 2018, Shell announced a target to maintain its methane emissions 
intensity below 0.2% by 2025. This target covers all Shell-operated 
Upstream and Integrated Gas oil and gas facilities. The baseline and 
target intensities are expressed as percentage figures, representing 
estimated methane emissions from Shell-operated gas and oil facilities 
as a percentage of the total amount of gas marketed, or the quantity of 
marketed oil and condensate where facilities have no marketed gas (e.g. 
those that re-inject produced gas). Methane emissions include those from 
unintentional leaks, venting and incomplete combustion, for example in 
flares and turbines. In 2019, our overall methane intensity was 0.08% for 
facilities with marketed gas and 0.01% for facilities without marketed gas. 
Intensities at facility level ranged from below 0.01% to 1.3%. We believe 
our methane emissions are calculated using the best methods currently 
available: a combination of industry standard emission factors 
(established emission rates per throughput or per piece of equipment), 
engineering calculations and some actual measurements. There are 
uncertainties associated with methane emissions quantification. To reduce 
these uncertainties, our Upstream and Integrated Gas businesses are 
rolling out methane improvement programmes to further enhance data 
quality and reporting, continue implementation of leak detection and 
repair programmes, and make use of methane abatement opportunities. 
By 2025, all Shell-operated facilities are expected to have implemented 
more robust quantification methodologies. Externally, we continue to 
work on new technologies and improved quantification methods through 
partnerships and several other initiatives.
Detailed information on our approach to managing methane emissions 
and performance is expected to be published in the Shell Sustainability 
Report in April 2020.
CARBON CAPTURE, UTILISATION AND STORAGE
CCS or CCUS is a technology used for capturing CO
2 before it is emitted 
into the atmosphere, then transporting it by pipelines or ships and injecting 
it into a deep geological formation for permanent storage. In the IPCC 
Global Warming of 1.5°C special report, the middle-of-the-road scenario 
(P3) shows cumulative abatement provided by CCS of 687 billion tonnes 
of CO
2 by 2100. This compares with over 260 million tonnes of man-made 
CO2 that has been injected to date (Global Status of CCS 2019 report). 
By May 2019, our Quest CCS project in Canada (Shell interest 10%), 
had captured and safely stored more than 4 million tonnes of CO
2 since 
it began operating in 2015. The Gorgon CCS project in Australia 
(Shell interest 25%, not operated), which started operating in 2019, is 
expected to store between 3.4 and 4 million tonnes of CO
2 each year. 
In Norway, we are involved in the Northern Lights CCS project for 
capturing and storing industrial CO
2, and in TCM, a CO2 capture 
test centre in Mongstad.
As a member of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), Shell is 
participating in its Kickstarter initiative to unlock large-scale investment 
in CCUS. The initiative is designed to help decarbonise multiple industrial 
hubs around the world, starting with those in the USA, UK, Norway, the 
Netherlands and China. The aim is to create the necessary conditions 
for a commercially viable, safe and environmentally responsible CCUS 
industry. Shell is one of six strategic partners working with OGCI Climate 
Investments to possibly develop the UK’s first commercial clean gas power 
full-chain CCS project, to be located in Teesside as part of the UK hub.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
We continue to work on improving energy efficiency at our oil and gas 
production facilities, refineries and chemical plants. Measures include 
our GHG and energy management programme that focuses on the 
efficient operation of existing equipment. This means, for example, using 
monitoring systems which give us real-time information that we can use to 
make energy-saving changes and identify opportunities for energy-saving 
investments in the medium term. Shell’s scorecard incorporates GHG 
metrics that create additional incentives for all our employees to reduce 
GHG emissions in our portfolio. 
  S ee “Directors’ Remuneration Report” on page 155-163.
CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION continued
Strategic Report

95
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
NEW ENERGIES
Our New Energies business explores emerging opportunities linked to the 
energy transition, and invests in those where we believe sufficient value is 
available. New Energies expects to invest on average $1-2 billion a year 
until 2020 in different services and products from a range of cleaner 
sources. We focus on new fuels for transport, such as advanced biofuels, 
hydrogen and charging for battery-electric vehicles; and power, including 
from low-carbon sources such as wind and solar as well as natural gas. 
Between 2021 and 2025, our investments in power could grow to 
$2-3 billion a year on average, if certain financial conditions are met. 
Alongside our work in new fuels and power, we are exploring how 
digital technologies can best support our activities and customers.
  S ee “Integrated Gas” on page 49.
New fuels
We invest in a range of low-carbon technologies and fuels, including 
biofuels, hydrogen and battery-electric vehicle charging. We believe that 
hydrogen has the potential to be an important low-carbon transport fuel. 
We are involved in several initiatives to encourage the adoption of 
hydrogen-electric energy.
  S ee “Integrated Gas” on page 50.
Biofuels
We believe that biofuels can play a valuable role in reducing CO
2 
emissions from the transport sector over the decades ahead. 
In 2019, we used around 10.1 billion litres of biofuel in our gasoline and 
diesel blends worldwide to comply with applicable mandates and targets 
in the markets where we operate. Through our own long-established 
sustainability clauses in supply contracts, we request that the biofuels 
we buy are produced in a way that is environmentally and socially 
responsible throughout the production chain. Currently, most available 
biofuels are produced from cereals, vegetable oils and sugar cane. From 
cultivation to use, some biofuels can emit significantly less CO
2 compared 
with conventional gasoline. But this depends on several factors, such as 
how the feedstock is cultivated and the way biofuels are produced. 
Other challenges include concerns over labour rights, the amount of 
water used in the production process, and the competing demands 
for land use between biofuels and food crops.
Over three-quarters of the biofuels we buy are from North American or 
European feedstock producers. In both regions, regulations for agricultural 
practices are in place, including considerations for sustainability.
We continue to support the adoption of international sustainability 
standards, including the Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS), 
the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and Bonsucro, an 
organisation for the certification of sugar cane. We also support 
the Roundtable for Sustainable Biomaterials and the International 
Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) scheme for feedstocks. 
We aim to increase the percentage of certified volumes against these 
robust multi-stakeholder standards. 
Currently, more than 99% of our purchased volumes of biofuels are 
either covered by our supplier-agreed contract sustainability clauses 
or certified as sustainable by an independent auditor. We aim to 
increase the percentage of certified volumes against robust multi-
stakeholder standards.
Our Raízen joint venture (Shell interest 50%, not operated) in Brazil has 
produced low-carbon biofuel from sugar cane since 2011. Through our 
Raízen joint venture, we produce one of the lowest CO
2 biofuels available 
today. Raízen produces approximately 2 billion litres of ethanol from 
sugar cane annually. Brazilian sugar-cane ethanol can reduce CO
2 
emissions by around 70% when compared with conventional gasoline, 
from cultivation of the sugar cane to using the ethanol as fuel. 
In 2015, Raízen opened its first advanced biofuels plant at the Costa Pinto 
mill in Brazil. The technology was first developed from our funding of the 
Iogen Energy venture, which was subsequently transferred to Raízen. 
In 2019, the plant produced 19.5 million litres of cellulosic ethanol from 
sugar-cane residues. It is expected to produce 40 million litres a year 
once fully operational. 
Outside Brazil, we continue to invest in new ways of producing 
biofuels from sustainable feedstocks, such as biofuels made from waste 
products or cellulosic biomass. In 2017 , we completed construction of a 
demonstration plant at the Shell Technology Centre Bangalore, India. The 
plant demonstrates a technology called IH2® that turns waste feedstock 
into transport fuel. The plant can process around five tonnes per day of 
feedstock, such as agricultural waste, and aims to demonstrate the 
technology for possible scaling up and commercialisation.
We continue to look for opportunities to invest in third-party technologies 
and to collaborate in scaling these up for commercialisation. In February 
2019, Shell became an equal equity partner in a commercial-scale 
waste-to-chemicals project called W2C Rotterdam – in partnership with 
Air Liquide, Enerkem, Nouryon and the Port of Rotterdam. The partners 
plan to build Europe’s first commercial-scale facility for producing 
chemicals and biofuels from waste materials which cannot otherwise 
be recycled. The facility in the Botlek area of the Port of Rotterdam in 
the Netherlands will use Enerkem’s proprietary technology.
Also in 2019, Shell signed an equity investment agreement with PRESPL, 
an Indian company specialising in biomass aggregation and processing 
for energy production. 
In line with our strategy of developing more sustainable feedstocks for 
transport, we are also investing in renewable natural gas (RNG) for use 
in natural-gas-fuelled vehicles, in the USA and Europe. RNG is produced 
from biogas collected from landfill sites, or via anaerobic digestion of food 
waste or manure and then processed until it is fully interchangeable with 
conventional natural gas. The use of RNG in natural-gas vehicles, either in 
the form of compressed natural gas (CNG) or LNG, offers customers using 
these vehicles an attractive way of lowering their CO
2 footprint. 
In the USA, in May 2018, we acquired the JC Biomethane plant in 
Junction City, Oregon. We aim to start production after completing an 
expansion of the facility in 2020. This will increase the facility’s capacity 
to produce RNG.
Strategic Report

96
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Power
Power is the fastest-growing segment of the energy system. We expect 
that people and companies around the world will use more electricity to 
power transport and industry, instead of coal and oil, as part of the drive 
to lower carbon emissions. To help meet this demand, Shell aims to 
become an integrated power player and grow, over time, a material 
new business. We are working to deliver more electricity generated 
by renewable energy, from developing wind and solar projects to 
selling electricity generated by renewable sources.
  S ee “Integrated Gas” on page 49.
NATURE-BASED SOLUTIONS
We believe that nature will play an important role in the transition to a 
lower-carbon world. Using nature to capture carbon from the atmosphere 
presents an immediate opportunity. It can help to bridge the gap until 
other low-carbon solutions are deployed at scale, or to compensate for 
emissions which cannot be avoided. Nature-based solutions are expected 
to be one of Shell’s tools to reduce our Net Carbon Footprint. Nature-
based projects typically involve the protection or redevelopment of 
natural ecosystems such as forests and wetlands, allowing those 
ecosystems to capture and store more carbon on our behalf. These 
projects, which also support local communities and conserve biodiversity, 
generate carbon-emission rights that can then be bought by energy 
consumers around the world. In 2019, we launched a programme to invest 
in natural ecosystems as part of our strategy to act on global climate 
change. For example, in the UK, we are working with Forestry and Land 
Scotland, a government agency, to generate carbon credits by helping 
to plant or regenerate around 1 million trees over the next five years. 
See the Shell Sustainability Report to be published in April 2020 for 
more information.
OUR STRATEGY ON CLIMATE CHANGE
Our strategy to assess and manage risks and opportunities resulting 
from climate change includes consideration of different time horizons 
and specific risks:
 ■ commercial risk: the potential for structural shifts in demand profiles 
for industry products;
 ■ regulatory risk: the potential for strengthening of existing and 
introduction of new regulations; 
 ■ physical risk: the potential impact on our facilities and the communities 
in which we operate due to changing physical conditions; and 
 ■ societal risk: the potential for a deteriorating relationship with the 
public, other companies, and governments in countries where 
Shell operates.
This is how we describe the different time horizons and the relevance 
for the identification of risks and business planning:
 ■ Short term (up to three years): detailed financial projections are 
developed and used to manage performance and expectations 
on a three-year cycle. This three-year plan is shared with the Board;
 ■ Medium term (three years up to around 10 years): the majority of 
production and earnings expected to be generated in this period 
come from our existing assets; and
 ■ Long term (beyond around 10 years): for this period, it is expected for 
the current Shell portfolio to go through changes and evolution with 
the energy transition. Decision-making and risk identification on the 
thematic structure of the future portfolio are guided by the pace of 
progress of society and in step with society as it moves towards 
the goals of the Paris Agreement.
Shell has a rigorous approach to understanding, managing and mitigating 
climate risks to its facilities. Shell also requires each business and function 
to monitor, communicate and report changes in the risk environment and 
the effectiveness of actions taken to manage identified risks on an ongoing 
basis. This is outlined in a toolkit for risk management including our Risk 
Management Manual and complementary guidance documents covering 
specific aspects such as climate risk. The potential, timing, and severity of 
the impact of the risks highlighted above are largely dependent on the 
geographical location and the asset type. 
Each Shell business unit needs to consider the adequate management 
of climate-related risks in their portfolios. To ensure informed judgements 
are made, businesses’ senior managers present their current assessments 
of how likely climate risks are to happen, what their potential impact 
would be, and what is being done to mitigate the risk. Each risk is then 
categorised as either adequately managed or needing improved 
mitigation and this aims to guide their ongoing operations and 
maintenance schedules and response planning. In some instances, 
Shell may also deploy a risk assessment approach which includes 
the work of a team of experts to analyse, for example, the physical 
impact of weather and climatic-related issues and the associated 
adaptation aspects.
We aim to reduce the GHG intensity of our portfolio and we continue 
to work on improving the energy efficiency of our existing operations. 
As discussed above, and as a better way to inform and drive our 
investment choices and adapt our business over time, in 2017 , we 
announced our Net Carbon Footprint ambition. Our approach to 
calculating the Net Carbon Footprint covers emissions directly from Shell 
operations (including from the extraction, transportation and processing 
of raw materials, and transportation of products), those generated by third 
parties who supply energy to us for production, and our customers’ 
emissions from their use of our energy products. Also included are 
emissions from elements of this life cycle not owned by Shell, such as oil 
and gas processed by Shell but not produced by Shell, or from oil 
products and electricity marketed by Shell that have not been processed 
or generated at a Shell facility. The calculation also includes biofuels, as 
well as emissions that we offset by using CCS or natural carbon sinks, such 
as forests and wetlands. Chemicals and lubricants products, which are not 
used to produce energy, are excluded from the scope of this ambition.
When selecting our Net Carbon Footprint ambition, we have deliberately 
chosen a wide and meaningful frame against which to manage our 
performance. The emissions from our operations are important but those 
of our customers from their use of the energy products are much larger in 
proportion. More information on our Net Carbon Footprint ambition is 
available on our webpage.
CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION continued
Strategic Report

97
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
The diagram below illustrates the scope of the Net Carbon Footprint calculation:
Production Use of our energyProcessing Distribution and sales
Scope of our Net Carbon Footprint
Emissions from energy products included within the Net Carbon Footprint framework.
1 2 3
Scope includes CO 2  
sinks such as CCS, 
nature-based solutions
Power plant
Power
Sales
Oil products
Third-party crude oil
SalesReﬁning
Processing
Liquefaction
Gas-to-liquids
Sales
Third-party gas
Third-party products
Third-party biofuels
Natural Gas
LNG
GTL
Emissions from bringing own products to market Emissions from bringing third-party products to market Emissions from use of sold products
Own oil and 
gas production
Renewable
energy Sales
Biofuels
Third-party products
Third-party power
Gas
production
Renewable
raw materials Processing
2
1
1
1
1 1
1
1
1 3
3
3
3
3
2
2
2
2
2
To meet the decarbonisation goals of the Paris Agreement, society needs 
an increasing supply of energy products that produce lower or zero GHG 
emissions over their full life cycle, to use those products more efficiently 
and to store emissions that cannot be avoided in sinks. Within this 
framework, our strategy is to keep increasing the share of such low-carbon 
energy products in our portfolio, while also developing carbon sinks. 
By broadening our focus to the full life-cycle emissions from the energy 
products that we sell to our customers, instead of solely on our operational 
emissions, we believe we will be better aligned with societal need and 
growing customer demand for more energy with lower life-cycle GHG 
emissions. Therefore, our strategy is to reduce our Net Carbon Footprint, 
mainly by increasing the proportion of lower-carbon products such 
as natural gas, biofuels, electricity and hydrogen in the mix of 
products we sell. 
We will publish annual updates on our progress towards lowering the 
Net Carbon Footprint of our energy products. See the Shell Sustainability 
Report to be published in April 2020 for more information.
Our long-term ambition is to reduce the Net Carbon Footprint of our 
energy products to be in line with that of society as a whole by 2050. 
This is a stretching aspiration that aims to ensure that Shell continues to 
develop a resilient and relevant portfolio over the coming decades. While 
this is a long-term aspiration that will need periodic recalibration in line 
with the pace of change in broader society and the wider energy system, 
it is intended to help ensure that we remain relevant and are competitively 
positioned in the energy transition. This means supplying energy products 
and services that our customers need, now and in the future, and 
developing a resilient portfolio in line with our purpose of providing 
more and cleaner energy to society.
In the period to 2035, we believe that all forms of GHG reduction 
measures must be accelerated and increased in scale by society. Major 
improvements in energy efficiency and new sources of energy, such as 
renewables, combined with the use of cleaner fossil fuels, such as 
replacing coal with natural gas, are needed to meet the growing global 
population’s energy needs while reducing GHG emissions. In addition, 
Strategic Report

98
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
the world will need significant growth in CCS and sustained improvements 
in efficiency. Massive reforestation is also needed to limit temperature rises 
to 1.5°C. The management of GHG emissions is increasingly important 
to our shareholders as concerns over climate change lead to tighter 
environmental regulations. Policies and regulations designed to limit the 
increase in global temperatures to well below 2°C could have a material 
adverse effect on Shell – through higher operating costs and reduced 
demand for some of our products. We actively monitor and assess these 
potential developments and believe we are best able to manage them 
when local policies provide a stable and predictable regulatory 
foundation for our future investments. At this stage, industry is still facing 
significant uncertainty about how local regulatory policies and consumer 
behaviour will shape the evolution of the energy system and which 
technologies and business models will thrive. 
In December 2018, we announced our intention to set short-term Net 
Carbon Footprint targets. In early 2020, it was decided to set a Net 
Carbon Footprint target for 2022 of 3-4% lower than our 2016 Net 
Carbon Footprint of 79 grams of CO
2 equivalent per megajoule. We have 
received third-party limited assurance on our Net Carbon Footprint for the 
years 2016 to 2019. For 2019, our Net Carbon Footprint was 78 grams of 
CO
2 equivalent per megajoule. The reduction in our Net Carbon Footprint 
was due to an increase in sales of electricity in markets with declining grid 
carbon intensity, and growth in customer demand for carbon-neutral 
product offerings.
OUR PERFORMANCE
Data in this section are reported on a 100% basis in respect of activities 
where we are the operator. Reporting on this operational control basis 
differs from that applied for financial reporting purposes in the 
“Consolidated Financial Statements” on pages 191-239. Detailed data 
and information on our 2019 environmental and social performance is 
expected to be published in the Shell Sustainability Report in April 2020.
Our direct GHG emissions decreased from 71 million tonnes of CO
2 
equivalent in 2018 to 70 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2019. The 
main contributors to this decrease were divestments (for example in 
Argentina, Canada, Norway, Iraq, Malaysia and the UK). The level 
of flaring in our Upstream and Integrated Gas businesses combined 
increased by around 15%, compared to 2018, primarily as a result of 
the start-up of our Prelude floating liquefied natural gas installation in 
Australia and higher levels of flaring in Nigeria, partially offset by 
our Majnoon divestment in Iraq (mid-2018). 
In 2015, we signed up to the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 
initiative. This is an important initiative to ensure that all stakeholders, 
including governments and companies, work together to address routine 
flaring. Flaring, or burning off, of gas in our Upstream and Integrated Gas 
businesses contributed around 8% of our overall direct GHG emissions in 
2019. Around 25% of this flaring took place at facilities where there was 
no infrastructure to capture the gas produced with oil, known as 
associated gas. 
Around 35% of flaring in our Upstream and Integrated Gas facilities in 
2019 took place in assets operated by The Shell Petroleum Development 
Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC). Flaring from SPDC-operated facilities 
fell by around 20% between 2015 and 2019. Flaring intensity levels in 
SPDC in 2019 increased by around 10% compared to 2018. SPDC 
continues to make progress in close collaboration with its joint-venture 
partners and the Federal Government of Nigeria towards the objective 
of ending the continuous flaring of associated gas. Two new gas-gathering 
projects (Adibawa and Otumara) came on stream at the end of 2017 , 
followed by two more (the Forcados Yokri Integrated Project and 
Southern Swamp Associated Gas Gathering Solutions) in 2019.
GHG emissions data are provided below in accordance with UK 
regulations. GHG emissions comprise CO
2, methane, nitrous oxide, 
hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, sulphur hexafluoride and nitrogen 
trifluoride. The data are calculated using locally regulated methods where 
they exist. Where there is no locally regulated method, the data are 
calculated using the 2009 API Compendium, which is the recognised 
industry standard under the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard. There are inherent limitations to the accuracy of such 
data. Oil and gas industry guidelines (IPIECA/API/IOGP) indicate that a 
number of sources of uncertainty can contribute to the overall uncertainty 
of a corporate emissions inventory. 
Greenhouse gas emissions
  
2019 2018
Emissions (million tonnes of CO2 equivalent)
Direct [A] 70 71
Energy indirect [B] 10 11
Intensity ratio (tonne/tonne)
All facilities [C] 0.24 0.24
[A] E missions from the combustion of fuel and the operation of facilities, calculated using global 
warming potentials from the IPCC’s Fourth Assessment Report. 
[B]
 E
missions from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling for our own use, calculated 
using a market-based method as defined by the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard. 
[C]
 I
n tonnes of total direct and energy indirect GHG emissions per tonne of crude oil and 
feedstocks processed and petrochemicals produced in Downstream manufacturing, oil 
and gas available for sale, LNG and GTL production in Integrated Gas and Upstream. 
Additional information by segment will be published on our webpage.
Detailed information on our 2019 GHG emissions is expected to 
be published in the Shell Sustainability Report in April 2020 and 
on our webpage.
The statements in this “Climate change and energy transition” section, 
including those related to Net Carbon Footprint, are forward-looking 
statements based on management’s current expectations and certain 
material assumptions and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties 
that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ 
materially from those expressed or implied herein.
  S ee “About this Report” on pages 2-3 and “Risk factors” 
on pages 27-36 .
CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY TRANSITION continued
Strategic Report

99
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
OUR PEOPLE
We recruit, train and recompense people according to a strategy that 
aims to organise our businesses effectively. Our people are essential to 
the successful delivery of the Shell strategy and to sustaining business 
performance over the long term. We accelerate development of our 
people; grow and strengthen our leadership capabilities; and enhance 
employee performance through strong engagement.
EMPLOYEE OVERVIEW
The employee numbers presented here are the full-time equivalent number 
of people employed by Shell on a full- or part-time basis, working in Shell 
subsidiaries, Shell-operated joint operations, seconded to non-Shell-
operated joint operations, or joint ventures and associates.
At December 31, 2019, there were 83,000 employees in Shell and an 
additional 4,000 in certain New Energies and Downstream companies, 
compared with 81,000 at December 31, 2018, and 83,000 at December 
31, 2017 . The net increase in 2019 was driven by accelerated growth of 
the Information Technology hub in Bangalore, increased project activity 
in Projects & Technology, growth in Lubricants Asia, and growth in 
Customer Operations in Downstream Global Commercial. These 
changes were partly offset by reductions in Upstream and Integrated 
Gas which were driven by portfolio activities and our continued effort 
to improve operational efficiency and to reduce costs. 
Further statements about employees in this section and data presented 
in the tables excludes the 4,000 employees in certain New Energies 
and Downstream companies. Note 26 to the “Consolidated Financial 
Statements” on page 237 provides the average number of employees 
by business segment.
Actual number of employees by geographical area
Thousand
2019 2018 [A] 2017 [A]
Europe 24 24 24 
Asia 30 28 28 
Oceania 2 2 2 
Africa 4 4 5 
North America 21 21 21 
South America 2 2 3 
Total 83 81 83 
[A] A s revised, numbers have been changed from average number to actual number 
to align with current year definition. These numbers exclude the 4,000 employees in 
certain New Energies and Downstream companies. 
In 2019, a total of 373,000 formal training days were provided for 
employees and joint-venture partners, compared with 315,000 in 2018. 
We continue to invest in people and capabilities, and in our continued 
focus on safety and personal development.
EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION AND INVOLVEMENT
We strive to maintain a healthy employee and industrial relations 
environment in which dialogue between management and our employees 
– both directly and, where appropriate, through employee representative 
bodies – is embedded in our work practices. On a regular basis, 
management engages with our employees through a range of formal and 
informal channels, including all-staff messages from the Chief Executive 
Officer, webcasts, townhalls, team meetings, face-to-face gatherings, 
breakfast briefings, interviews with senior management and online 
publications via our intranet. For further information on stakeholder 
engagement, see the “Governance” section on page 113. 
Employees
83,000
employees and a further 4,000 in certain 
New Energies and Downstream companies 
at December 31, 2019
Region
>70
countries in which we operate
Training
373,000
formal training days for employees 
and joint-venture partners
Female employees
31%
female employees
Directors
42%
women on the Board of Directors
Senior leaders
26%
women in senior leadership positions
Experienced hires
2,800
experienced people joined Shell (32% female)
Operations centre hires
3,600
recruited for Shell Business 
Operations centres (51% female)
Graduate hires
500
graduate hires (48% female)
All metrics except for the Employees metric exclude the 4,000 employees 
in certain New Energies and Downstream companies.
Performing competitively in the evolving energy landscape 
requires competent and empowered people working safely 
together across Shell.
Strategic Report

100
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
We promote safe reporting of views about our processes and practices. 
In addition to local channels, the Shell Global Helpline enables our 
people and third parties to report potential breaches of the Shell 
General Business Principles and Shell Code of Conduct, confidentially 
and anonymously, in a variety of languages. In 2018, there were 1,584 
reported cases via the Shell Global Helpline: 1,232 allegations and 352 
inquiries. In 2019, there were 1,686 reported cases via the Shell Global 
Helpline: 1,278 allegations and 408 inquiries. Shell Internal Audit (SIA) 
is the custodian of the Shell Global Helpline process in Shell, which 
is managed by an independent third party. SIA is accountable for 
ensuring that the Shell Global Helpline functions as intended and that 
all allegations of Code of Conduct breaches (including bribery and 
corruption) are investigated and followed up appropriately. The Board 
has formally delegated the responsibility for reviewing the functioning of 
the Shell Global Helpline, and the reports arising from its operation, to 
the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee is also authorised to establish 
and monitor the implementation of procedures for the receipt, retention, 
proportionate and independent investigation and follow-up action 
of reported matters. 
Strong employee engagement is especially important in maintaining 
strong business delivery in times of change. The Shell People Survey is one 
of the principal tools used to measure employee engagement, motivation, 
affiliation and commitment to Shell. It provides insights into employees’ 
views and has had a consistently high response rate. In 2019, the response 
rate was 85.5%, which was an increase of 3.5 percentage points 
compared to 2018. The average employee engagement score was 
78 points out of 100, an increase of one point compared to 2018, 
and places us among the leading results across a range of industries.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Our diversity and inclusion approach focuses on hiring, developing 
and retaining the best people.
Embedding the principles of diversity and inclusion in the way we do 
business gives us a better understanding of the needs of our people, 
partners, suppliers and customers. We believe that a diverse workforce, 
and an inclusive and caring environment that respects and nurtures 
diverse people, is a way to improve our safety and business performance.
We continue our relentless focus on attracting, developing and promoting 
more women, and we are supporting initiatives that encourage girls to 
study science, technology, engineering and mathematics. We also do 
this by creating a culture of respect and inclusion.
We provide equal opportunity in recruitment, career development, 
promotion, training and rewards for all our people. In 2019, Shell joined 
the disability campaign The Valuable 500 to eliminate the exclusion 
of disabled people worldwide. Since 2018, we have completed the 
implementation of workplace accessibility service to 83 locations globally. 
The service is designed to ensure that all employees have access to 
reasonable physical workplace or other adjustments so that they 
can work effectively and productively. 
We also run an initiative called I’m Not OK to promote open and honest 
conversations about mental health. In 2019, we focused on stigma by 
launching an online portal for employees worldwide to share their stories 
about the support that helped them most when they struggled. In doing 
so, they addressed the issue of stigma by demonstrating that mental 
ill-health can happen to anyone irrespective of job, nationality, age, 
gender or culture. 
Our focus on workplace inclusion also continues in other areas. At Shell, 
we support and enable remarkable people from every background, and 
strive to be a pioneer of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) 
inclusion in the workplace. In 2019, we were again recognised in the top 
tier as a Workplace Pride Advocate in the Workplace Pride global LGBTI 
inclusive workplace benchmark and earned a 100% score in the Human 
Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index.
In 2019 the Hampton Alexander Review ranked Shell second out of the 
Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE) 350 Oil & Gas Industry index 
companies and 14th out of the FTSE 100 rankings of Women on Boards 
and in Leadership. We actively monitor representation of women and 
local nationals in senior leadership positions and have talent-development 
processes to support us in mitigating any biases and delivering a more 
diverse representation.
In 2019, 48% of our graduate recruits were female. At the end of 2019, 
the proportion of women in senior leadership positions was 26.4%, an 
increase of 2.4 percentage points compared to end of 2018. “Senior 
leadership positions” is a Shell measure based on salary group levels 
(circa 1,400 staff) and is distinct from the term “senior manager” in 
the statutory disclosures set out below.
Gender diversity data (at December 31, 2019)
 
Number
Men Women
Directors of the Company 7 58% 5 42%
Senior managers [A] 632 72% 250 28%
Employees (thousand) 57 69% 26 31%
[A] S enior manager is defined in section 414C(9) of the Companies Act 2006 and, accordingly, 
the number disclosed comprises the Executive Committee members who were not Directors 
of the Company, as well as other directors of Shell subsidiaries. 
The local national coverage is the number of senior local nationals (both 
those working in their respective base country and those expatriated) 
as a percentage of the number of senior leadership positions in their 
base country.
Local national coverage (at December 31)
Number of selected key business countries
2019 2018 2017
Greater than 80% 12 10 10
Less than 80% 8 10 10
Total 20 20 20
[A] These numbers exclude the 4,000 employees in certain New Energies and Downstream 
companies.
CODE OF CONDUCT
In line with the UN Global Compact Principle 10 (Businesses should work 
against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery), we 
maintain a global anti-bribery and corruption/anti-money laundering 
(ABC/AML) programme designed to prevent or detect, and remediate 
and learn from, potential violations. The programme is underpinned by 
our commitment to prohibit bribery, money laundering and tax evasion, 
and to conduct business in line with our Shell General Business Principles 
and Code of Conduct.
We do not tolerate the direct or indirect offer, payment, solicitation or 
acceptance of bribes in any form. Facilitation payments are also bribes 
and are prohibited. The Shell Code of Conduct includes specific guidance 
for Shell staff (which comprises employees and contract staff) on 
requirements to avoid or declare actual, potential or perceived conflicts 
of interest, and on offering or accepting gifts and hospitality.
Communications from leaders emphasise both the importance of these 
commitments and compliance with requirements. These are reinforced 
with both global and targeted communications to ensure that Shell staff 
OUR PEOPLE continued
Strategic Report

101
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
are frequently reminded of their obligations. Supporting the Code of 
Conduct, we have mandatory risk-based procedures and controls that 
address a range of compliance risks and ensure we focus resources, 
reporting and attention appropriately. By making a commitment to our 
core values – honesty, integrity and respect – and following the Code 
of Conduct, we protect Shell’s reputation. 
In 2019, we continued mandatory ethical leadership workshops for senior 
executives across our global operations, to reinforce and explore the level 
of commitment to ethics and compliance expected of leaders at this level. 
The workshops focus on values, behaviours, business pressures and 
leadership practices. The workshops are part of our wider work to 
cultivate a strong corporate culture where impeccable ethics are a matter 
of personal pride for every employee, rather than only a compliance issue.
As part of our commitment to ethics and compliance, we ensure that our 
policies, standards and procedures are communicated to Shell employees 
and contract staff and, where necessary and appropriate, to agents and 
business partners. Particular areas of focus with third parties include our 
due diligence procedures, and clearly articulated requirements (for 
example, through the use of standard contract clauses). In addition, we 
publish our Ethics and Compliance Manual on shell.com to demonstrate 
our commitment in this area.
The Shell Ethics and Compliance Office assists the businesses and 
functions with the ABC/AML and other programme implementation, and 
monitors and reports on progress. Legal counsel provides legal advice 
globally and supports the programme’s implementation. The Shell Ethics 
and Compliance Office regularly reviews and revises all ethics and 
compliance programmes to ensure they remain up to date with applicable 
laws, regulations and best practices. This includes incorporating results 
from relevant internal audits, reviews and investigations as well as 
periodically commissioning external reviews.
We have a duty to investigate all good faith allegations of breaches of the 
Code of Conduct, however they are raised. We are committed to ensuring 
all such incidents are investigated by specialists in accordance with our 
Investigation Principles. Violation of the Code of Conduct or its policies 
can result in disciplinary action, up to and including contract termination 
or dismissal. In some cases, we may report a violation to the relevant 
authorities, which could lead to legal action, fines or imprisonment.
Internal investigations confirmed 263 substantiated breaches of the Code 
of Conduct in 2019. As a result, we dismissed or terminated the contracts 
of a total of 93 employees and contract staff.
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS
We have a number of share plans designed to align employees’ interests 
with our performance through share ownership. For information on the 
share-based compensation plans for Executive Directors, see the 
“Directors’ Remuneration Report” on pages 135-154.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN, LONG-TERM INCENTIVE 
PLAN AND EXCHANGED AWARDS UNDER THE BG LONG-
TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
Under the PSP, 50% of the award is linked to certain indicators 
described in “Performance indicators” on pages 144, averaged over the 
performance period. From 2017 to 2019, 12.5% of the award is linked to 
free cash flow (FCF) and the remaining 37 .5% is linked to a comparative 
performance condition which involves a comparison with four of our main 
competitors over the performance period, based on three performance 
measures. Under the LTIP, awards made in 2017 and 2018, 25% of the 
award is linked to the FCF measure and the remaining 75% is linked to 
the comparative performance conditions mentioned above. From 2019 
onwards, 22.5% of the award is linked to the FCF measure and 10% is 
linked to an energy transition measure. The remaining 67 .5% is linked 
to the comparative performance condition mentioned above.
Separately, following the BG acquisition, certain employee share awards 
made in 2015 under BG’s Long-Term Incentive Plan were automatically 
exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in the Company. The 
outstanding awards take the form of either conditional awards or 
nil-cost options.
Under all plans, all shares that vest are increased by an amount equal to 
the notional dividends accrued on those shares during the period from the 
award date to the vesting date. In certain circumstances, awards may be 
adjusted before delivery or reclaimed after delivery. None of the awards 
result in beneficial ownership until the shares vest.
See Note 21 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on page 232.
RESTRICTED SHARE PLAN
Under the Restricted Share Plan, awards are made on a highly selective 
basis to senior staff. Shares are awarded subject to a three-year retention 
period. All shares that vest are increased by an amount equal to the 
notional dividends accrued on those shares during the period from the 
award date to the vesting date. In certain circumstances, awards may 
be adjusted before delivery or reclaimed after delivery.
GLOBAL EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN
Eligible employees in participating countries may participate in the 
Global Employee Share Purchase Plan. This plan enables them to make 
contributions from net pay towards the purchase of the Company’s shares 
at a 15% discount to the market price, either at the start or at the end of an 
annual cycle, whichever date offers the lower market price.
UK SHELL ALL EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLAN
Eligible employees of participating Shell companies in the UK may 
participate in the Shell All Employee Share Ownership Plan, under which 
monthly contributions from gross pay are made towards the purchase of 
the Company’s shares. For every six shares purchased by the employee, 
one matching share is provided at no cost to the employee.
UK SHARESAVE SCHEME
Eligible employees of participating Shell companies in the UK have been 
able to participate in the UK Sharesave Scheme. Options have been 
granted over the Company’s shares at market value on the invitation date. 
These options are normally exercisable after completion of a three-year or 
five-year contractual savings period. From 2017 no further grants were 
made under this plan.
Separately, following the acquisition of BG, certain participants in the BG 
Sharesave Scheme chose to roll over their outstanding BG share options 
into options over the Company’s shares. The BG option price (at a 
discount of 20% to market value) was converted into an equivalent 
Company option price at a ratio agreed with Her Majesty’s Revenue 
and Customs. These options are normally exercisable after completion 
of a three-year contractual savings period.
Strategic Report signed on behalf of the Board
/s/ Linda M. Coulter
LINDA M. COULTER
Company Secretary 
March 11, 2020
Strategic Report

102
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Directors’ Report
104 T
he Board of Royal Dutch Shell plc
111 S
enior Management
113 I
ntroduction from the Chair
115 
 S
tatement of compliance with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code
117 G
overnance framework
119 B
oard evaluation and activities 
122
  U
nderstanding and engagement 
with our stakeholders 
124 W
orkforce engagement
126 N
omination and Succession Committee
128 
 S
afety, environment and 
sustainability committee
129 Au
dit Committee Report
135 D
irectors’ Remuneration Report
139 
 A
nnual Report on Remuneration
155 D
irectors’ Remuneration Policy
164 
 O
ther Regulatory and Statutory Information
GOVERNANCE
Governance

103
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Governance

104
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
THE BOARD OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC
Career
Charles (Chad) Holliday was appointed Chair of the Board of Royal Dutch Shell plc with 
effect from May 19, 2015.
He was Chief Executive Officer of DuPont from 1998 to 2009, and Chairman from 1999 
to 2009. He joined DuPont in 1970 after receiving a BS in industrial engineering from the 
University of Tennessee and held various manufacturing and business assignments, 
including a six-year Tokyo-based posting as President of DuPont Asia/Pacific.
He has previously served as Chairman of the Bank of America Corporation, The Business 
Council, Catalyst, the National Academy of Engineering, the Society of Chemical Industry 
(American Section) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. He is a 
founding member of the International Business Council.
Relevant skills and experience
Chad has a distinguished track record as an international businessman. He was originally 
appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in September 2010 and, prior to his 
May 2015 appointment as Chair of the Board, served as Chair of the Safety, Environment 
and Sustainability Committee and Member of the Remuneration Committee.
He has a deep understanding of international strategic, commercial and environmental issues, 
and gained extensive experience in the areas of safety and risk management during his time 
with DuPont. In his role as Chair, Chad is committed to developing and maintaining a strong 
dialogue with investors and other key stakeholders and ensures that their views are 
considered during Board discussions and decision-making. He has also demonstrated a 
strong commitment to ensuring that the highest standards of corporate governance, safety, 
ethics and compliance are maintained. Chad is a particularly avid advocate of greater 
diversity, which is reflected in the Board’s current diversity mix and increased diversity goals 
across the Shell Group.
Chad’s performance was evaluated by the other Directors, led by Gerard Kleisterlee, Deputy 
Chair and Senior Independent Director, in 2019. More information on the external board 
evaluation process can be found on page 114.
Career
Gerard was President/Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Management 
of Koninklijke Philips N.V. from 2001 to 2011. Having joined Philips in 1974, he held several 
positions before being appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Philips’ Components division 
in 1999 and Executive Vice President of Philips in 2000.
He was a member of the Board of Directors of Dell Inc. from 2010 to 2013 and a member 
of the Supervisory Board of Daimler AG from 2009 to 2014. From 2014 to 2016, he was 
a Non-executive Director of IBEX Global Solutions plc.
Relevant skills and experience
Gerard is a Dutch businessman with a distinguished career with one of the largest electronics 
companies in the world. Through a variety of senior roles, he was responsible for operations 
in places such as China, Europe, Hong Kong, Taiwan. Gerard is also currently Chair of 
Vodafone, one of the UK’s largest global companies, which provides services to more than 
500 million customers.
Gerard’s business experience provides him with a broad and deep understanding of the 
geopolitical, strategic and commercial challenges faced by an evolving business. His 
experience – gained at Philips, Dell and Vodafone, businesses that have seen significant 
changes in technology and consumer behaviour – has been a great asset to the Board 
as Shell transitions to a lower-carbon energy system.
Gerard is a skilled leader, making him ideally suited to his position as our Senior Independent 
Director, Deputy Chair and Chair of our Remuneration Committee. He raises the bar on the 
level of Board debate, with his insightful, concise and direct questions.
CHARLES O. HOLLIDAY
Chair
Tenure
Chair – 4 years and 9 months (appointed Chair 
May 19, 2015). On Board – 9 years and 6 
months (appointed September 1, 2010)
(see page 113 for further information)
Board Committee membership
Chair of the Nomination and Succession 
Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Presiding Director of HCA Holdings, Inc. Director of 
Deere & Company. Member of the Critical 
Resource’s Senior Advisory Panel. Member of 
the Royal Academy of Engineering (UK).
Age Nationality
72 US citizen
GERARD KLEISTERLEE
Deputy Chair and Senior 
Independent Director
Tenure
9 years and 4 months (appointed November 1 
2010). On January 29, 2020, the Board announced 
that Gerard Kleisterlee would not be seeking 
re-election at the 2020 Annual General Meeting.
Board Committee membership
Chair of the Remuneration Committee and member 
of the Nomination and Succession Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Chairman of Vodafone Group plc and Chairman of 
the Supervisory Board of ASML Holding N.V.
Age Nationality
73 Dutch
Governance

105
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
BEN VAN BEURDEN
Chief Executive Officer
Tenure
6 years and 2 months (appointed January 1, 2014)
Board Committee membership
N/A
Outside interests/commitments
No external appointments
Age Nationality
61 Dutch
JESSICA UHL
Chief Financial Officer
Tenure
3 years (appointed March 9, 2017)
Board Committee membership
N/A
Outside interests/commitments
No external appointments
Age Nationality
52 US citizen
Career
Ben was Downstream Director from January to September 2013. Before that, he was 
Executive Vice President Chemicals from 2006 to 2012. In this period, he also served on the 
boards of a number of leading industry associations, including the International Council of 
Chemicals Associations and the European Chemical Industry Council. Prior to this, he held a 
number of operational and commercial roles in both Upstream and Downstream, including 
Vice President Manufacturing Excellence. He joined Shell in 1983, after graduating with a 
master’s degree in chemical engineering from Delft University of Technology, the Netherlands.
Relevant skills and experience
Ben has more than 35 years of Shell experience and has built a deep industry understanding 
and proven management experience across the technical and commercial roles which he has 
undertaken over his career.
Since 2016, Ben has led Shell to deliver strong financial results, total shareholder returns 
and earnings per share. He also led Shell through ending the scrip dividend and the start of 
a $25 billion share buyback programme. Under his leadership Shell New Energies has been 
established and Shell has announced industry-leading initiatives in response to the global 
challenge of the energy transition to a lower-carbon future, including the introduction of 
Shell’s Net Carbon Footprint ambition. Shell is now at the forefront of a cross-industry 
push to reduce the greenhouse gas impact of natural gas with the Methane Guiding 
Principles.
Ben led the Company through the acquisition and integration of BG Group, executed an 
impressive reshaping of our portfolio and completed a divestment programme of $30 billion 
of non-core assets, making the Shell Group simpler.
Career
Jessica was Executive Vice President Finance for the Integrated Gas business from January 
2016 to March 2017 . Previously, she was Executive Vice President Finance for Upstream 
Americas from 2014 to 2015, Vice President Finance for Upstream Americas Unconventionals 
from 2013 to 2014, Vice President Controller for Upstream and Projects & Technology from 
2010 to 2012, Vice President Finance for the global Lubricants business from 2009 to 2010, 
and Head of External Reporting from 2007 to 2009. She joined Shell in 2004 in finance and 
business development, supporting the Renewables business.
Prior to joining Shell, Jessica worked for Enron in the USA and Panama from 1997 to 2003 
and for Citibank in San Francisco, USA, from 1990 to 1996. She obtained a BA from UC 
Berkeley in 1989 and an MBA at INSEAD in 1997 .
Relevant skills and experience
Jessica is a highly regarded executive with a track record of delivering key business 
objectives, from cost leadership in complex operations to mergers and acquisitions delivery. 
Jessica’s extensive experience combines an external perspective with more than 15 years of 
Shell experience: she has held finance leadership roles in Europe and the USA, in Shell’s 
Upstream, Integrated Gas and Downstream businesses, as well as in Projects & Technology 
and Corporate.
Jessica’s tenure as CFO has also been impressive. She was appointed not long after the BG 
acquisition, when Shell’s debt, gearing and development costs were high and when the oil 
price was still recovering from the lower levels in 2016.
In these challenging conditions, but with great enthusiasm, clarity and discipline, Jessica has 
overseen Shell’s delivery of industry leading cash flow from operating activities (for the 14th 
consecutive quarter at the end of 2019) and shareholder distributions ($25 billion in 2019). 
Jessica has also been a leading force for transparency in the energy industry, including on 
taxes and climate change. Under her tenure, Shell has continued to expand and enhance 
disclosures related to climate change in line with the Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures principles. Most recently, under her guidance, Shell published 
the Tax Contribution Report, which includes country-by-country report data, a standard 
set by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
Governance

106
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
THE BOARD OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC continued
Career
Ann started her career with Sun Life of Canada in 1976 in Montreal, Canada, and joined 
M&G Group in 1981, where she served as Senior Vice President and Controller for both life 
and health, and property and casualty businesses throughout North America. She joined 
Swiss Re in 1996, after it acquired the M&G Group, and served as Chief Financial Officer 
from 2003 to 2007 . From 2008 to 2009, she was interim Chief Financial Officer and an 
Executive Director of Northern Rock bank in the initial period following its nationalisation.
Ann has also held several non-executive director positions at Prudential plc, British American 
Tobacco plc, UBS AG, and UBS Group AG. Most recently, and until May 2019, Ann served 
as a Non-executive Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited. She was also Senior 
Independent Director of Rio Tinto plc.
Relevant skills and experience
Ann is a former CFO, a Fellow at the Institute of Chartered Professional Accountants, and has 
more than 25 years of experience in the financial services sector. She has worked her entire 
career in international business and has lived in or served on boards in nine countries. Ann 
makes significant contributions and adds exceptional value by bringing both her extensive 
experience and a new perspective to Board discussions.
Ann’s long international business career brings with it an invaluable global perspective 
and understanding, which is reflected in the insights and constructive challenges she brings 
to the boardroom. Ann was appointed Chair of the Audit Committee on July 1, 2019, and has 
made significant contributions in this role. Her highly relevant skills, particularly in investment 
appraisal and financial risk management, have been a welcome addition to our Board 
and Audit Committee. 
Career
Neil is a former FTSE 100 chief executive. After completing an engineering degree, Neil 
joined Johnston Matthey in 1980 where he held several senior management positions in both 
the UK and the US, before being appointed Chief Executive Officer in 2004. Since retiring 
from Johnston Matthey in 2014, Neil has focused his time on his non-executive roles.
Relevant skills and experience
Neil is highly experienced, has a broad industrial outlook and a highly commercial approach 
with a practical perspective on businesses. He brings a track record of strong operational 
exposure, familiarity with capital-intensive business and a first-class international perspective 
on driving value in complex environments. Neil was awarded an OBE for services to the 
chemical industry in 2016. Neil has leveraged upon his current and past experience in 
non-executive positions and, despite being new to the Shell Board, he has already made 
significant contributions to Board discussions. He has also provided valuable insight based 
on his former executive position and operational experience. 
[A] O n January 29, 2020, the Board appointed Neil Carson as Chair of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 
May 20, 2020. Neil has been a member of this Committee since June 1, 2019 and has previously served on a 
Remuneration Committee before joining the Shell Board.
[B]
 O
n December 9, 2019 TTE plc announced Neil’s intention to step down as Non-executive Director and Chair of TTE 
plc, once his successor has been found. 
NEIL CARSON OBE
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
9 months (appointed June 1, 2019)
Board Committee membership
Member of the Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee and member of 
the Remuneration Committee [A]
Outside interests/commitments
Non-executive Chairman of Oxford Instruments plc 
and TT Electronics plc [B]
Age Nationality
62 British
ANN GODBEHERE
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
1 year and 9 months (appointed May 23, 2018)
Board Committee membership
Chair of the Audit Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Professional 
Accountants and a Fellow of the Certified General 
Accountants Association of Canada.
Age Nationality
64 Canadian and British
Governance

107
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Career
Euleen is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, a 
Fellow of the Singapore Institute of Chartered Accountants and has professional qualifications 
in banking and taxation. She has held various senior management positions within Standard 
Chartered Bank and was Chief Executive Officer of Standard Chartered Bank, Singapore, 
from 2001 until 2006. She is also a Fellow of the Singapore Institute of Directors.
She has also held non-executive appointments on various boards including Aviva plc, 
MediaCorp Pte Ltd, Singapore Airlines Ltd, Singapore Exchange Ltd, Standard Chartered 
Bank Malaysia Berhad, Standard Chartered Bank Thai plc, CapitaLand Ltd and Temasek 
Trustees Pte Ltd. She was previously Non-executive Chairman of the Singapore International 
Foundation, and Chairman of International Enterprise Singapore and the Accounting 
Standards Council, Singapore.
Relevant skills and experience
Euleen’s current roles as Chair of the Board of Directors of various international companies 
provide significant experience in the area of strategy development and international 
businesses. She is a champion of diversity and constructively challenges the Board and 
management to continue to progress in this area.
Based in Singapore and as Chair of the Risk Committee of the largest bank in south-east 
Asia, Euleen is close to key emerging/growth markets for our business. Euleen’s risk 
management expertise has elevated the Board’s deep deliberations around risk governance. 
Her extensive travel around the world, through her various executive and non-executive roles, 
has equipped her with broad geopolitical insight and significant knowledge of operating in 
the Asian region.
Euleen uses her financial acumen to pose probing and insightful questions, both in and 
beyond the boardroom. This contributes to well-rounded and incisive Board discussions.
[A] O n January 29, 2020, the Board appointed Euleen Goh as Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director with effect 
from May 20, 2020.
EULEEN GOH
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
5 years and 6 months (appointed September 1, 2014)
Board Committee membership
Member of the Nomination and Succession 
Committee [A]
Outside interests/commitments
Chairman of SATS Ltd. Non-executive Director of DBS 
Bank Ltd and DBS Group Holdings Ltd. Trustee of the 
Singapore Institute of International Affairs Endowment 
Fund. Chairman of the Governing Council of the 
Singapore Institute of Management and Non-
executive Director of Singapore Health Services Pte 
Ltd, both of which are not-for-profit organisations. 
Age Nationality
64 Singaporean
Career
Catherine was Executive Vice President International at Nexen Inc., from January 2012 until 
her retirement in April 2013, where she was responsible for all oil and gas activities including 
exploration, production, development and project activities outside Canada. She joined 
Nexen in 2009 as Vice President Operational Services, Technology and Human Resources.
Prior to joining Nexen Inc., she was Vice President Oil Sands at Husky Oil from 2007 to 2009 
and Vice President Exploration & Production Services, from 2005 to 2007 . She started her 
career with Schlumberger in 1986 and held key positions in various countries, including 
France, Italy, Nigeria, the UK and the USA, and was President of Schlumberger Canada 
Ltd for five years. She was a Non-executive Director of Statoil from 2013 to 2015.
Relevant skills and experience
Catherine contributes her industry knowledge and ease of engagement with other Directors 
and managers in the boardroom. With her 30 years of oil and gas sector experience, she 
brings a geopolitical outlook and deep understanding of the industry. An engineer by 
training, she has also spent a significant part of her career working in senior human 
resources roles. The Board highly regards her perspectives on our industry and our 
most important asset, our people.
Catherine has a strong track record of executing operational discipline with a focus on 
performance metrics and a continual drive for excellence. Her knowledge of the technology 
underpinning oil and gas operations, logistics, procurement and supply chains benefits the 
Board greatly as it considers various projects and investment or divestment proposals.
She also uses her industry knowledge – combined with her commitment to the highest 
standards of corporate governance and safety, ethics and compliance – in her membership 
of our Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee, while using her human resources 
experience in her membership of the Remuneration Committee.
CATHERINE J. HUGHES
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
2 years and 9 months (appointed June 1, 2017)
Board Committee membership
Member of the Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee and member of 
the Remuneration Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Non-executive Director of SNC-Lavalin Group Inc.
Age Nationality
57 Canadian and French
Governance

108
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
THE BOARD OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC continued
Career
Roberto was Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of Itaú 
Unibanco Holding S.A. in Sao Paulo, Brazil, until April 2017 . At that time, he retired as Chief 
Executive Officer and currently serves as Co-Chairman of the Board of Directors. Following a 
brief period with Citibank in New York, he joined Banco Itaú in 1984 where he held a variety 
of senior roles in investment banking, consumer credit operations and retail banking before 
being appointed Chief Executive Officer in 1994. After the merger of Banco Itaú and 
Unibanco, he was appointed to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer 
of Itaú Unibanco Holding S.A. Previously, he was a Non-executive Director of Petrobas 
S.A., President of the IMC and Vice-Chairman of the Institute of International Finance.
Relevant skills and experience
Roberto brings significant experience in capital markets and financial services to the Board 
and has a deep understanding of international strategic management, commercial operations 
and risk management. He was instrumental in designing and then executing a strategy that 
led to Itaú becoming the largest bank in Brazil.
His deep financial knowledge enables him to make robust, demanding and constructive 
challenges to our investment considerations and helps to ensure that projects are aligned 
with our strategic intent.
Despite spending most of his life in Brazil, Roberto has a strong understanding of global 
business. Naturally, he also brings an invaluable perspective and insight into operating in his 
native country, a key growth market for Shell. His contributions also demonstrate his strong 
advocacy for the highest standards of corporate governance, ethics and compliance. This, 
combined with his experience of operating in challenging markets, helps to deepen the 
Board’s analyses of difficult matters with multi-faceted risks.
Career
Sir Nigel was a senior British diplomat who served as British Ambassador to the USA from 
2007 to 2012, before retiring from the Diplomatic Service. Prior to this, he served as Foreign 
Policy and Defence Adviser to the Prime Minister and as British Ambassador and Permanent 
Representative to the European Union in Brussels. He joined the Diplomatic Service in 1976 
and served in Brussels, Moscow, Washington and in a wide range of policy roles in London. 
Since 2012, he has taken on a number of international business roles, and has supported 
organisations involved in higher education and international affairs.
Relevant skills and experience
Sir Nigel’s distinguished track record including three of the most senior international roles in 
British public service has given him broad geopolitical and public policy experience, as well 
as knowledge of regulatory issues, communications and stakeholder management. He has a 
global and strategic outlook which enables him to identify emerging issues that could present 
geopolitical or reputational challenges.
Sir Nigel brings a unique government policy perspective to our strategic discussions 
particularly on topics such as the energy transition, that are strongly influenced by the views 
of governments and a complex range of interested parties. His many contributions to the 
Board on this and other strategic and operational topics often reflect the interconnections 
between geopolitics, business and external stakeholder engagement.
He is used to operating in challenging environments and is committed to active external 
engagement. This, and his understanding of public policy and regulatory issues through his 
career in government service and membership of think tank and university boards, makes him 
well suited to the role of Chair of our Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee.
ROBERTO SETUBAL
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
2 years and 5 months (appointed October 1, 2017) 
On March 11, 2020, the Board announced that 
Roberto Setubal would not be seeking re-election 
at the 2020 Annual General Meeting.
Board Committee membership
Member of the Audit Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Member of the board of the International 
Monetary Conference (IMC), the Economic and 
Social Development Council of the Presidency of 
Brazil, and the International Business Council of the 
World Economic Forum. He is also President of the 
Fundação Itaú Social and a member of the 
Executive Committee of the Instituto Itaú Cultural.
Age Nationality
65 Brazilian
SIR NIGEL SHEINWALD GCMG
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
7 years and 8 months (appointed July 1, 2012)
Board Committee membership
Chair of the Safety, Environment and Sustainability 
Committee and member of the Remuneration 
Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Non-executive Director of Invesco Ltd and 
Raytheon UK. Senior Adviser to Tanium Inc. and 
to the Universal Music Group. Visiting Professor 
and Council Member of King’s College, London.
Age Nationality
66 British
Governance

109
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Career
Gerrit was an adviser to PricewaterhouseCoopers during 2007 , Chairman of the Trustees 
of the International Accounting Standards Board from 2007 to 2010, and an adviser to 
Permira from 2007 to 2008. He was Chief Economist of DSB Bank from July 2007 to January 
2008, Chief Financial Officer from January 2008 to December 2008, and Chairman of the 
Managing Board of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. from 2010 to 2016. He was Minister of Finance 
of the Netherlands, twice, from 1994 to 2002 and from 2003 to 2007 . In between, he 
was Chairman of the parliamentary party of the VVD.
Prior to 1994, he was head of the Netherlands Bureau for Economic Policy Analysis, a 
professor at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, and held various positions at the Ministry of Finance 
and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. He studied general economics at the Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, from where he also received an honorary doctorate in economics.
Relevant skills and experience
An economist by background, Gerrit’s distinguished 12-year service as the Minister of Finance 
to the Netherlands, coupled with his experience gained from his time with ABN AMRO Bank, 
brings a deep and valuable understanding of Dutch politics and financial markets to the 
Board. His international financial management expertise and strategic development 
experience also benefits the Audit Committee.
A highly regarded and seasoned leader in both the public and private spheres, his significant 
experience in analysing financial commitments from a wider public stakeholder and a 
global business standpoint serves the Board well, particularly when considering investment 
proposals. Gerrit consistently and concisely articulates the logic and reasoning behind his 
views, benefiting the Board and management. His questions often trigger other analytical 
questions from fellow Directors, which serves to deepen and widen Board discussions.
Career
Linda retired from her position as founding partner of the law firm of Stuntz, Davis & Staffier, 
P.C. in January 2019. She was a member of the US Secretary of Energy Advisory Board from 
2015 to 2017 . She chaired the Electricity Advisory Council of the US Department of Energy 
from 2008 to 2009. Linda was a member of the board of Directors of Schlumberger Ltd from 
1993 to 2010 and of Raytheon Company from 2004 to 2015.
From 1989 to 1993, she held senior policy positions at the US Department of Energy, including 
Deputy Secretary.
Relevant skills and experience
Linda’s Harvard legal training and deep practical legal experience bring unique and valuable 
expertise in energy-industry and environmental law, as well as extensive public policy 
experience, to our Board. This is conveyed through her in-depth knowledge of the gas 
and power industries and her work on issues related to climate change and 
energy-related measures to minimise greenhouse gas emissions.
As a board director of publicly traded companies for more than 25 years, Linda has provided 
strategic and legal advice to many energy companies and has substantial experience in 
overseeing and working with businesses with operations around the world. She has a broad 
understanding of technology and its development/commercialisation within our industry, 
from her work with the US government and on the Schlumberger board. She has significant 
knowledge and understanding of cyber risks as a result of her Raytheon and Edison 
International board service.
Linda’s unique background, coupled with her exceptional ability to frame clear questions 
that tackle the key points of complex issues, helps deepen the Board’s constructive challenges 
and considerations of critical industry-related matters, particularly those related to the 
energy transition.
LINDA G. STUNTZ
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
8 years and 9 months (appointed June 1, 2011) 
On January 29, 2020, the Board announced that 
Linda G. Stuntz would not be seeking re-election at 
the 2020 Annual General Meeting.
Board Committee membership
Member of the Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee and member 
of the Nomination and Succession Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Director of Edison International.
Age Nationality
65 US citizen
GERRIT ZALM
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
7 years and 2 months (appointed January 1, 2013)
Board Committee membership
Member of the Audit Committee and member of 
the Remuneration Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Director of Moody’s Corporation inc and 
Danske Bank A/S
Age Nationality
67 Dutch
Governance

110
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
THE BOARD OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC continued
Career
Linda was General Counsel of the Upstream Americas business and Head of Legal US, based 
in the USA, from 2014 to 2016. Previously, she was Group Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer 
based in the Netherlands from 2011 to 2014. Since joining Shell in 1995, she has also held a 
variety of legal positions in the Shell Oil Company in the USA, including Chemicals Legal 
Managing Counsel and other senior roles in employment, litigation, and commercial practice.
Relevant skills and experience
Linda is our Company Secretary and plays an important role as Shell’s General Counsel 
Corporate, overseeing corporate legal teams in Belgium, Canada, the Netherlands, 
Switzerland, the UK and the USA.
The various legal roles Linda has undertaken at our headquarters, and in supporting both the 
Upstream and Downstream businesses, have provided her with a strong understanding of our 
global operations and people. Her experience of engaging with the Board in previous roles, 
coupled with her broad understanding and engagement across Shell’s businesses and 
functions, helps to ensure that the right matters come to the Board at the right time.
LINDA M. COULTER
Company Secretary
Tenure
3 years and 2 months (appointed January 1, 2017)
Age Nationality
52 US citizen
DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
All the Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement. The Chair is not subject to the 
Code’s independence test other than on appointment. 
Non-executive Director tenure (years)
Gender diversity
Non-executive Director sector experience Director nationality
ATTENDANCE 
Board meeting attendance for 2019 is provided below in the 
table [A]. The Board held eight scheduled meetings in 2019.
[A] F or attendance at Committee meetings during the year, please refer to individual 
Committee Reports. 
[B]
 B
en van Beurden was not able to attend one Board meeting due to illness. 
He reviewed the key agenda topics and had a discussion with the Chair prior to the 
Board meeting. He also conveyed his opinions and comments on the matters to be 
considered via the Chairman of the Board.
[C]
 N
eil Carson joined the Board in June 2019. Ahead of his appointment, he attended 
the Board meeting in May 2019. This is not reflected in the table as his appointment 
was not effective until June 1, 2019. Neil was unable to attend the Board meeting in 
October due to an immovable commitment which was scheduled prior to his 
appointment to the Shell Board.
Board Member Meetings attended
Ben van Beurden[B] 7/8
Neil Carson[C] 3/4
Ann Godbehere 8/8
Euleen Goh 8/8
Charles O. Holliday 8/8
Catherine J. Hughes 8/8
Gerard Kleisterlee 8/8
Roberto Setubal 8/8
Sir Nigel Sheinwald 8/8
Linda G. Stuntz 8/8
Jessica Uhl 8/8
Gerrit Zalm 8/8
BOARD DIVERSITY
Male
Female 42%
58%
Accounting and Finance
Oil & gas, Extractives, Energy
Strategy development
Engineering, Industrial
Consumer, marketing
Regulatory, Government 
affairs, Public policy
80%
80%
70%
100%
60%
90%
Singaporean
Dutch
American
Canadian
Brazilian
British
8%
8%
17%
25%
25%
17%
9+
0-3
4-6
7-9
20%
30%
10%
40%
Governance

111
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
HARRY BREKELMANS 
Projects & Technology Director
Tenure
5 years and 5 months (appointed October 2014)
Age Nationality
54 Dutch
Career
Harry was previously Executive Vice President 
for Upstream International Operated based 
in the Netherlands. He joined Shell in 1990 
and has held various management positions 
in Exploration and Production, Internal Audit, 
and Group Strategy and Planning. From 2011 
to 2013, he was Country Chair Russia and 
Executive Vice President for Russia and the 
Caspian region.
RONAN CASSIDY
Chief Human Resources & 
Corporate Officer
Tenure
4 years and 2 months (appointed January 2016)
Age Nationality
53 British
Career
Ronan was previously Executive Vice President 
Human Resources, Upstream International. 
He joined Shell in 1988 and has held various 
human resources positions in Upstream 
and Downstream.
DONNY CHING 
Legal Director
Tenure
6 years and 1 month (appointed February 2014)
Age Nationality
55 Malaysian
Career 
Donny was previously General Counsel 
for Projects & Technology based in the 
Netherlands. He joined Shell in 1988 based 
in Australia and then moved to Hong Kong 
and later to London. In 2008, he was 
appointed Head of Legal at Shell Singapore, 
having served as Associate General Counsel 
for Gas & Power in Asia-Pacific.
WAEL SAWAN
Upstream Director
Tenure
8 months (appointed July 2019)
Age Nationality
45 Lebanese and Canadian
Career
On July 1, 2019, Wael succeeded Andy Brown 
as Upstream Director and was appointed 
to the Executive Committee.
Wael was previously the Executive Vice 
President, Deep Water and a member of the 
Upstream Leadership Team. He joined Shell in 
1997 and has worked in a variety of roles in 
each of Shell’s core business units: Upstream, 
Integrated Gas and Downstream.
The Senior Management 
of the Company comprises 
the Executive Directors, 
Ben van Beurden and Jessica 
Uhl, and those listed below. 
All are members of the Executive 
Committee (see “Governance 
Framework” on page 117).
Governance

112
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SENIOR MANAGEMENT continued
ANDREW BROWN
Upstream Director until June 2019 
(appointed January 2016)
JOHN ABBOTT 
Downstream Director until December 
2019 (appointed October 2013)
HUIBERT VIGEVENO
Downstream Director
Tenure
2 months (appointed January 2020) 
Age Nationality
50 Dutch
Career
On January 1, 2020, Huibert succeeded John 
Abbott as Downstream Director and was 
appointed to the Executive Committee. 
Huibert was previously Executive Vice President 
Global Commercial. He joined Shell in 1995 
and led many Downstream businesses across 
Shell in Europe, Africa, North and South 
America, and Asia. This included acting as 
Executive Chairman of Shell in China, and in 
2016 leading the integration of BG Group.
MAARTEN WETSELAAR 
Integrated Gas and New 
Energies Director
Tenure
4 years and 2 months (appointed January 2016)
Age Nationality
51 Dutch
Career
Maarten was previously Executive Vice 
President of Integrated Gas based in 
Singapore. He joined Shell in 1995 and 
has held various financial, commercial and 
general management roles in Downstream, 
Trading and Upstream.
2019 LEAVERS
Governance

113
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
The key themes of the Code are used in this Report to form the framework 
for articulating our narrative and we have sought to provide a genuine 
understanding of how governance supports and protects the business 
and our stakeholders.
The impact of the Code on Shell’s existing governance processes and 
reporting practices, as well as certain implementation recommendations, 
were reviewed and considered by the Nomination and Succession 
Committee, at the end of 2018 and over the course of 2019. Its findings 
were then discussed and agreed with the Board. Overall, it was 
considered that while Shell was already applying the principles and the 
spirit of the Code, the Board recognises that enhanced reporting in this 
area could help make this clearer for stakeholders. The Board’s approach 
to certain provisions (as explained in further detail below) is considered 
appropriate, when taking into account circumstances based on a range 
of factors that are particular to Shell, including its global nature, size, 
complexity and history. To provide greater insight into our current 
governance practices, we have highlighted some provisions on page 115, 
and signposted where more information can be found in the report and, 
where possible, explain how we see our practices evolving over time.
The importance of stakeholder engagement has received greater external 
focus in recent years. Given the nature of our business, engagement is 
considered key to our operations and has been a key focus for some time. 
How and why we engage with our stakeholders is also provided on 
page 122. The Board’s discharge of its duty in relation to key stakeholder 
interests, including those of our workforce, and an explanation of how 
it considered these when making principal decisions is set out on 
page 124 in the Strategic Report. Additionally, on page 120 we provide 
information on our Board activities and highlight which stakeholder we 
considered. We have also enhanced our reporting on our workforce 
engagement methods. We believe that constructive relationships built on 
mutual respect and transparency helps Shell attract and retain employees 
while supporting greater productivity and operational efficiency. Ensuring 
that the employee voice is heard in the boardroom in practical ways is key 
to understanding the broader impact of business decisions including with 
respect to company culture.
The Board clearly recognises the importance of culture and its link to 
delivering Shell’s purpose and strategy. Given our culture’s importance it 
requires long-term commitment. The Board believes that our people and 
safety culture is strong, something we take pride in. Moreover, our culture 
reflects the values of the business – honesty, integrity and respect for 
people – which underpin all the work we do and is embedded within 
our Strategy and Purpose. 
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
How the Board and its Committees support the business operations is 
provided on page 117 with more detail within the Terms of Reference for 
each Committee, which are provided on our website. Each year the Board 
Committees’ Terms of Reference are reviewed and updated, as required. 
This year we have also changed the name of our Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee to the Safety, Environment and Sustainability 
Committee (SESCo), reflecting the Committee’s focus on safety and 
environmental matters, including climate change and sustainability. The 
updates have been made in consideration of external developments. 
The importance of independent judgement on the Board is a fundamental 
governance principle and one supported by the Board. The Code 
provides circumstances that it considers are likely to impair, or could 
appear to impair, a Non-executive Director’s independence, and tenure 
is one of these. At the time of the 2020 Annual General Meeting (AGM), 
Gerard Kleisterlee, Senior Independent Director, will reach a tenure of 
nine years since his appointment to the Board by shareholders. However, 
CHAD HOLLIDAY
Chair
As communicated at the start of this Annual Report, and reflected 
in the reported results, 2019 was not an easy year for the sector in 
which we operate. The year provided a tough macroenvironment, 
lower Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) and gas prices, as well as weaker 
realised refining and chemicals margins. As we look forward, we see 
continued risk from the difficult-to-predict outcomes of the trade 
conflicts in some regions, uncertainties within Europe over post-Brexit 
arrangements, the slowdown and vulnerability of some markets 
and regional geopolitical tensions. However, we also see robust 
economic growth in some regions and stronger than expected 
cyclical recoveries.
Society is also changing, which we welcome, accelerating its perspective 
on what companies should be doing, increasing the pressure and 
encouraging us to rise to the challenges ahead as the world moves to an 
environment supported by lower-carbon energy products. Shell agrees 
with the importance attached by its stakeholders to the issue of climate 
change and Shell’s future success depends on effectively navigating the 
risks, opportunities and uncertainties presented by the energy transition. 
All businesses, governments, and even individuals must work together 
and have a role to play in shifting demand away from carbon-intensive 
resources. However, oil and gas will not only be needed by some parts 
of society for many decades to come, they are key cash generators 
that support our investment through the energy transition and underpin 
delivering our ambitions aligned to the goals of the Paris Agreement 
while providing a world-class investment case to Shell’s investors.
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND SHELL’S PURPOSE
The UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) provides that 
the Board should promote the long-term sustainable success of Shell, 
generating value for shareholders and contributing to wider society. 
The Board believes that Shell’s efforts give it an effective framework to 
play its part in the energy transition as a growing, successful, commercial 
organisation. In the Board’s view, this framework will allow Shell to 
provide the energy solutions that consumers will want and buy through 
this period of uncertain change. The Board also thinks that Shell will be 
able to reduce the carbon intensity of the energy products it supplies. 
The Code asks us to report on our business purpose, which is provided at 
the start of this Report. However, we have carried the concept of purpose 
through other reporting areas to provide a further understanding of our 
operations and the benefits of particular activities. 
INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIR
Governance

114
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIR continued
as he was appointed to the Board by the Directors some seven months 
ahead of his first election by shareholders, his independence for the 
period of October 2019, to the 2020 AGM requires deeper evaluation 
under a new Code provision. Within our statement of compliance 
with the Code on page 115 we provide the questions the Board 
considered when testing Gerard’s independence.
COMPOSITION, SUCCESSION AND EVALUATION
The Director biographies in this Report provide insight into our Directors’ 
careers, skills and experience. Further, our Board diversity reporting 
extends past gender and nationality, and outlines the varying sector 
experience across the Board.
At the 2019 AGM, Neil Carson was elected to the Board by shareholders. 
An overview of his induction programme is provided on page 120. At the 
end of the 2020 AGM, both Gerard Kleisterlee, Senior Independent 
Director, and Linda Stuntz, Independent Non-executive Director will 
retire from the Board after nine years of service. They both leave strong 
leadership track records, and the Board is deeply grateful for their many 
years of dedicated commitment to the business. As we announced on 
January 29, 2020, Euleen Goh will become Deputy Chair and Senior 
Independent Director when Gerard retires and Neil Carson will 
become Chair of our Remuneration Committee.
The Board completed its annual performance evaluation in December 
2019, which was facilitated externally. The process again proved to be a 
valuable exercise, generating reflective discussions and planned actions. 
The process was led by me and undertaken by Independent Board 
Evaluation. On page 120 we have sought to provide insight into 
the process, the outcome and some of the areas we plan to enhance.
One of the Code provisions introduces a recommended nine-year limit 
to the tenure of the Board Chair. As this is a provision directly relating 
to me, our Senior Independent Director, Gerard Kleisterlee, provides an 
explanation on page 115 of how the Board considered this provision 
and when the Board proposes that my tenure concludes. 
AUDIT, RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Audit Committee assists the Board in maintaining a sound system of 
risk management and internal control and oversight over Shell’s financial 
reporting. A variety of standing matters and more specific topics are 
discussed by the Audit Committee throughout the year. As part of the 
year-end reporting process, the Audit Committee advises the Board on 
the adequacy of the system of risk management and internal control in 
place, the appropriateness of the viability statement and going concern 
basis of accounting. The Audit Committee also advises on whether this 
Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for stakeholders to assess Shell’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy. More information 
on the Audit Committee’s activities, highlights and priorities can be found 
in its report on page 132.
REMUNERATION
In 2020, shareholders will vote on our revised Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy. Under the new Policy, we have focused on simplifying remuneration 
structures to improve clarity and transparency while maintaining the 
existing connection with our business strategy. In keeping with recent 
governance developments and societal views, we are placing increasing 
emphasis on the discretionary management of pay to ensure reward 
outcomes are appropriate. We will also be asking shareholders to vote 
on the energy transition metric which links reward with our ambitions 
to reduce our Net Carbon Footprint. Further information can be 
found on page 163. 
Finally, we hope that this new format of document provides a clearer 
format for our reporting and enhances the understanding of our 
governance processes for our stakeholders. I would also again like 
to thank my fellow Directors, my colleagues and our workforce around 
the world for their continued and considerable efforts to the success 
of the Company.
CHAD HOLLIDAY
Chair
March 11, 2020
CHANGES TO OUR REPORTING
To assist with providing stakeholders greater insight into Board 
operations and the governance activities that support the business, 
we have chosen to split the UK-governed Annual Report from the 
US-governed Form 20-F. The key strategic messages continue to be 
provided within both documents. We are now at the start of a journey 
with the Annual Report and are seeking to adopt a practical approach 
that is more responsive to the requests of our readers. To avoid 
duplication, and excessive cross referencing, the Directors’ Report 
now spans the governance section of this report from page 
104 to page 171. It provides the necessary governance assurances 
and confirmations, and focuses on the factors that we believe will be 
of most interest to readers and important to the long-term prospects 
of Shell.
As society changes we are committed to changing the business to 
support it and, with this, become more transparent in our operations 
and the information that we share, especially when working to earn 
and maintain trust. Building on our disclosures from 2019, such as 
our Industry Associations Report, the enhancement of our quarterly 
financial disclosures and our Tax Contribution Report (available on the 
Shell website). We have also sought to share more information in this 
Report on Shell’s ways of working and how the Board operates. 
Governance

115
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
ASSESSING DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
The following questions were used to assess Gerard’s independence:
 ■ Was the Director’s re-election supported at the last AGM? Did the 
level of support, or communication from investors ahead of the 
AGM indicate concern about the Director’s independence? 
 ■ Have the conferred interests of other Directors or management 
unduly influenced behaviour or approach to decision-making?
 ■ How has any potential influence – as a result of familiarity amongst 
Directors and between Directors and management who have 
served together for more than the nine years – been avoided?
 ■ How proactive is the Director? Have they stood themselves apart 
from, or avoided, any potential influence when making decisions?
 ■ Where good working relationships with fellow Directors and 
management have been developed, are these strictly professional 
and limited to work-related matters only? Are there any known 
situations where they have attended the same events in a non-Shell- 
related capacity and in what context?
 ■ Has the Director previously been involved in the industry in which 
the Company operates? Is there a network of contacts that could 
reduce the ability to be objective or contaminate their views?
 ■ Are the views and opinions of Directors and management 
challenged appropriately and at what frequency?
 ■ Have there been circumstances when the Board is reaching 
consensus, but the Director has not been afraid to speak up 
or offer an alternative view?
 ■ Are boardroom behaviours indicative of a strong culture of 
collaboration, but with robust debate, and in a way that means 
no one Director dominates discussions?
 ■ How is the Board satisfied that there is no reliance on one or 
certain viewpoints and that there is inclusive, diverse-thinking 
boardroom culture?
 ■ How has performance as a Director and, where relevant, 
performance in a particular role or duty changed over recent 
years, and since reaching more than nine years of service? 
The Board confirms that, throughout the year, the Company has applied 
the Principles, both in spirit and in form, and complied with the provisions 
set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC) in July 2018 (”the Code”). A copy of the Code 
can be found on the FRC’s website: www.frc.org.uk.
Shell’s governance arrangements have been considered alongside 
the Code. The information set out in the Directors’ Report, including the 
Board Committee Reports on (pages 126-127 , 128, 129-134 and 135-138) 
is intended to provide an explanation of how the Principles of the Code 
were applied practically throughout the year. We have also chosen to 
provide information below where we believe stakeholders may benefit 
from a more specific explanation on particular Code provisions.
Chair Tenure (Provision 19)
Note: The text relating to Chair tenure is provided by Gerard Kleisterlee, 
Senior Independent Director.  
Charles O. Holliday (Chad) was appointed as Chair in 2015 after four 
and a half years on the Board as a Non-executive Director. In September 
2019, he reached a tenure of nine years.
The provisions of the Code address Chair tenure and provide a limit of 
nine years from the date of first appointment to the Board. However, the 
Code pragmatically acknowledges that this period can be extended for 
a limited time to facilitate orderly, effective succession planning and the 
development of a diverse board. In the 2018 Annual Report and Form 
20-F we highlighted that Chad’s tenure had been discussed in numerous 
shareholder engagements and it was disclosed that shareholders were 
supportive of the extension of his tenure to the 2021 AGM. This meets 
the Code’s limited exception, particularly as the Chair was an existing 
Non-executive Director on appointment. The Board also takes comfort 
from the support for Chad’s re-election at the 2019 AGM (96% votes 
in favour) and ongoing support from shareholders.
The Board continues to believe that retaining Chad on the Board and 
in the position of Chair until the 2021 AGM is right for the business. 
The Board is confident that this facilitates more effective phasing of his 
succession. As stated last year, and agreed by shareholders, an earlier 
departure would be disruptive and could leave a significant deficiency 
in Shell’s corporate knowledge when taking into account the forthcoming 
departures of other long-serving Directors: both myself and Linda Stuntz. 
The Board believes that Chad remains an effective Chair, which was 
strongly recognised in the independent evaluation of the Board. Although 
the Board will continue to assess his objectivity, the Board is assured that 
Chad will continue to exercise objective judgment, despite his tenure 
surpassing nine years. The Board finds that the continuity of his corporate 
knowledge and experience is essential to complement and support the 
new skills and experience of Director appointments of the last few years, 
as well as those that we will need to make in the coming year.
Chad’s innate understanding and knowledge of the Shell Group, coupled 
with the strong Shell relationships he has established, are appreciated and 
highly valued by the Board. His skills enable him to effectively challenge 
management and coach other, particularly new, Non-executive Directors 
on the intricacies and nuances of the business, thereby better equipping 
them to effectively challenge management and enhance overall 
governance. The Board has also achieved increased diversity under 
Chad’s leadership as Chair. Chad’s leadership of the Board through 
to 2021 is critical to the Board’s effective succession planning through 
the short term.
Director Independence (Provision 10)
As referenced in the Chair’s statement, Gerard Kleisterlee has served on 
the Board for more than nine years, having joined in November 2010. The 
Board acknowledges the potential impairment of his independence owing 
to his length of tenure, as outlined in a Code provision. In the Board’s view, 
there has been no notable negative change in Gerard’s performance as 
a Director and in his various Board roles in recent years. The Board 
continues to regard him as an independent Non-executive Director 
and undertook a rigorous evaluation to reach this conclusion. 
Gerard did not participate in his own assessment.
The result of this assessment was positive and given that Gerard’s 
independence is only questioned by one of the seven parameters 
outlined in the Code, the Board has determined that he remains  
independent. The Directors have also observed that Gerard continues 
to be independent of mind and will. He regularly leverages his deep 
understanding and knowledge of the Shell Group and insightful 
perspectives based on his corporate memory, coupled with his external 
background and knowledge to enrich Board discussions while also 
providing objective judgement and effective challenge to management 
and the wider Board. Gerard’s fellow Directors have also noted, during 
the evaluation, that he uses his skills and experience to assist the Chair 
in driving productive discussions and offers considered advice based 
on objective judgement. The continuity of his Board tenure, corporate 
knowledge and experience has complemented and supported the skills 
and experience of relatively newer Director appointments over the years, 
including those of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers.
Governance

116
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Workforce engagement (Provision 5)
Our people are essential to the successful delivery of the Shell strategy, 
and the Board recognises the importance of understanding their views 
through engagement. However, the size and diversity of our employee 
base as well as that of our wider workforce complicates the feasibility of 
implementing any of the three specific workforce engagement methods 
recommended in the Code. Given the required coverage needed for 
a global organisation such as ours, the Board believes that its current 
approach to workforce engagement continues to be pragmatic 
and effective. 
However, the Board has also decided that in 2020 it will increase its 
direct engagements when the Board, Committees and individual Directors 
visit our sites across the world and its indirect engagements through 
enhanced stakeholder engagement information in relevant management 
reports. The Board also agreed to keep under review the effectiveness 
of the engagements. More information on the current approach and 
a description of the channels used by the Board, its Committees, and 
the Executive Committee are outlined in “Workforce engagement” 
on pages 124-125.
Appointment of independent Non-executive Director 
as Senior Independent Director (Provision 12)
Information on the independence of the appointed Senior Independent 
Director, at the date of publication, is explained under the “Director 
Independence” heading on the previous page. As provided earlier in 
this report, Euleen Goh will succeed Gerard in this role following the 
2020 AGM, subject to her reappointment by shareholders. Details 
on succession planning and the work of the Nomination and 
Succession Committee is contained on pages 126-127 .
Composition of the Remuneration Committee (Provision 
32, independence)
The Remuneration Committee has five Non-executive Directors making 
up its membership, four of which are deemed to be independent under the 
parameters of the Code, and the fifth (Gerard Kleisterlee) is considered 
to be independent by the Shell Board for the reasons provided in its 
explanation. Remuneration Committee members have served this 
Committee for periods ranging from over two years to just over five years, 
the exception being Neil Carson, who joined the Board and Remuneration 
Committee on June 1, 2019. As announced on January 29, 2020, Neil 
Carson will succeed Gerard in the role of Committee Chair following the 
2020 AGM, subject to his reappointment by shareholders. Neil has been 
a member of this Committee since June 1, 2019 and has previously served 
on a remuneration committee before joining the Shell Board.
 Having 
Gerard remain as Committee Chair beyond his nine-year tenure to the 
natural conclusion of his tenure at the 2020 AGM was a practical step 
promoting smooth succession. Further details on the composition 
of the Remuneration Committee are provided on page 139 of the 
Remuneration Committee Report.
Corporate governance requirements outside the UK
In addition to complying with applicable corporate governance 
requirements in the UK, the Company complies with the rules of Euronext 
Amsterdam as well as Dutch securities laws because of its listing on that 
exchange. The Company likewise adheres to US securities laws and the 
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules and regulations because its 
securities are registered in the USA and listed on the NYSE.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE continued
Governance

117
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Chair
 ■ Responsible for ensuring that the Board and its Committees function effectively. One way in which this is achieved is by ensuring 
Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information; and
 ■ Responsible for making sure that there is an adequate induction and training programme followed by all Directors (see page 127 
below), with assistance from the Company Secretary.
Board
 ■ Promotes the long-term sustainable success of the Company, generating value for shareholders and contributing to wider society as 
detailed throughout our Strategic Report;
 ■ Meets eight times a year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it;
 ■ Responsibilities include:
 ■ Approval of overall strategy and oversight of management;
 ■ Changes to the corporate and capital structure;
 ■ Approval of financial reporting and controls (including approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, approval of the Annual Report 
on Form 20-F, and interim dividends);
 ■ Oversight of risk management and internal control;
 ■ Approval of significant contracts;
 ■ Determining succession planning and new Board appointments;
 ■ Remuneration for the Chair and Executive Directors; and
 ■ Corporate governance matters.
Roles and responsibilities
 ■ The roles of the Chair, a non-executive role, and the CEO are separate and clearly defined. The Board has agreed their respective 
responsibilities and set these out in writing. These are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Board Committees
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
[A] F ormerly known as the Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee.
Audit Committee
 ■ Carries out certain oversight functions on behalf of the 
Board; and 
 ■ Assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation 
to internal control and financial reporting.
More information on the Committee’s composition 
and its role and activities during the year are on 
pages 130-133.
Nomination and Succession Committee
 ■ Leads the process for appointments to the Board;
 ■ Recommends Board appointments and re-appointments;
 ■ Reviews and makes recommendations on succession 
planning; and
 ■ Reviews and makes recommendations on corporate 
governance guidelines.
More information on the Committee’s composition, 
and its role and activities during the year, including 
its recommendations made to the Board on the 
application of the Code, are on pages 126-127.
Safety, Environment and  
Sustainability Committee [A]
 ■ Carries out certain oversight functions on behalf of the 
Board; and
 ■ Advises the Board on safety, the environment 
including climate change, and Shell’s overall 
sustainability performance.
More information on the Committee’s composition 
and its role and activities during the year are on 
page 128.
Remuneration Committee
 ■ Determines and agrees with the Board the remuneration 
policy for the Chair, Executive Directors and senior 
management of the Company;
 ■ Within the terms of such agreed policy, determines 
individual remuneration packages for the Chair, and 
Executive Directors; and
 ■ Monitors and makes recommendations regarding the 
structures and levels of remuneration structures and 
levels for other senior executives, if appropriate.
More information on the Committee’s composition, 
and its role and activities during the year are on 
page 139.
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
From time to time the Board may create other special ad-hoc Committees to monitor and/or approve certain matters. One such Committee is the 
Nigeria Special Litigation Committee, which among other things, monitors the status of the OPL-245 litigation and investigations. Its members 
consist of Linda Stuntz (Chair), Chad Holliday, Euleen Goh and Ann Godbehere. 
Governance

118
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Deputy Chair/Senior Independent Director
 ■ Sounding board for the Chair;
 ■ Serves as an intermediary for the other Directors and shareholders; and
 ■ Leads the annual appraisal of the Chair’s performance.
Non-executive Directors
 ■ Appointed by the Board or by shareholders at general meetings and, in accordance with the Code, seek re-election by shareholders 
on an annual basis;
 ■ Letters of appointment refer to a specific term of office, the provisions of the Code and the Company’s Articles of Association;
 ■ Upon appointment, Non-executive Directors confirm they are able to allocate sufficient time to meet the expectations of the role. 
Appointments are subject to a minimum of three months’ notice of termination, and there is no compensation provision for early 
termination;
 ■ The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range and balance of skills and international business experience. Through their contribution 
to the Board and Board Committee meetings, respectively, they are expected to challenge and help develop proposals on strategy 
and bring independent judgement on issues of performance and risk; and
 ■ Before each Board meeting, the Chair and Non-executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present. At these 
“pre-meetings”, the Non-executive Directors discuss, among other matters, the performance of individual Executive Directors. 
A number of Non-executive Directors also meet major shareholders over the course of the year.
Chief Executive Officer
 ■ Has overall responsibility for the implementation, by the 
Executive Committee, of the overall strategy approved by the 
Board, the operational management of the Company and the 
business enterprise connected with it; and
 ■ Supported in this by the Executive Committee that he chairs.
 ■ Articles of Association
 ■ Matters Reserved for the Board
 ■ Board Committee Terms of Reference
 ■ Modern Slavery Statement
 ■ Shell General Business Principles
 ■ Shell Code of Conduct
 ■ Code of Ethics for Executive Directors and Senior Financial Officers
Are available on the website
www.shell.com/investor
Executive Committee
 ■ Operates under the direction of the Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO) in support of his responsibility for the overall 
management of Shell’s business. The CEO has final authority 
in all matters of management that are not within the duties 
and authorities of the Board or of the shareholders’ 
general meeting; and
 ■ Executive Committee members are listed in the senior 
management biographies on page 111.
GOVERNANCE DOCUMENTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK continued
Governance

119
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
The evaluation of the Board was conducted according to the guidance 
in the Code and was facilitated by Ffion Hague at Independent 
Board Evaluation. [A]
[A] F fion Hague and Independent Board Evaluation have no connection or relationship to the 
Company or to any Director.
Independent Director. In addition, the Chair received a report on 
individual Directors and provided individual feedback to every Director 
on their contributions. In January 2020, Gerard led a separate discussion 
in relation to the performance of the Chair (in the absence of the Chair).
Insight
The feedback from Board Directors was positive throughout, with 
particular praise for the culture of the Board and the leadership provided 
by both the Chair and the Chief Executive Officer. Although areas of 
Board work were identified for improvement, the Evaluation Report 
clarified that such improvements were to fine-tune versus radically 
overhaul the Board’s performance.
Feedback themes included noting the strength of the relationship between 
the Board and management team, the Board process and the Board’s 
confidence in the Management.
Accountability – Board Directors are aware of their accountability to 
a range of stakeholders including shareholders, employees, communities 
and society at large; and conscious of the societal scrutiny to which 
Shell is subject. 
Strategy – The strategy process is highly regarded, and Directors 
appreciate the efforts made to keep them updated on key items, for 
example, on the science behind climate change, via deep dives into 
various new energies, and through the Board’s engagement with external 
experts. While the Board appropriately challenges management on 
strategic issues, Directors agree that strategy is a key focus for the 
business and the Directors feel well informed and engaged on strategic 
issues. Going forward, the Board noted the need to further consider 
the prioritisation of the approved strategic ambitions and to ensure 
that Board time spent on strategic and operational matters was 
appropriately balanced. 
Governance – Directors note that Shell’s identification and follow-up 
of governance and compliance concerns, including with regard to 
substance and processes, are dealt with well and thoroughly.
Succession – Succession planning and talent management were 
identified by Directors as a clear area of strength. Directors particularly 
noted the attention to talent development within the business, evident 
in the quality of emerging talent for various roles.
Culture – Board culture was another area of strength highlighted by 
Directors, crediting the Chair for setting a strong lead in this respect. 
The Board’s values are felt to blend well with the Company’s own 
values and Directors actively enjoy their engagement with their 
fellow Directors and the business.
Discussion and observation (Stage 1)
A comprehensive brief was given to the assessment team by the Chair 
in September 2019. The evaluation team also observed Board and 
Committee meetings in October 2019. Copies of all pre-read materials 
were provided to the evaluation team, for briefing purposes, ahead of 
the meeting.
In October and November 2019, detailed interviews were conducted 
with every Director. All participants were interviewed by Ffion according 
to a set agenda tailored for the Board. Ffion was supported by her 
colleague for each interview. In addition, Ffion interviewed each Executive 
Committee member and the Company Secretary.
Analysis (Stage 2)
A report was compiled by the evaluation team based on the information 
and views supplied by the Board and other interviewees. All views or 
comments quoted in the report were made by participants during 
interviews. All recommendations were based on best practice as 
described in the Code and other current corporate governance guidelines.
Conclusions (Stage 3)
Draft conclusions were discussed with the Chair and subsequently 
discussed with the whole Board at a meeting in December 2019 with Ffion 
present. The conclusions of that discussion were recorded in the minutes 
of the meeting. Following the Board meeting, Ffion gave feedback to 
Committee Chairs on the performance of each Committee and discussed 
the report on the Chair’s performance with Gerard Kleisterlee, the Senior 
Board review process
Briefing 
and Board 
observation
Discussion 
with Committee 
chairs
One-to-one 
interviews 
with Board
Board 
discussion*
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3
ACTION 
PLAN 
AGREED
Note: The above activities were undertaken by Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation.
*Ffion Hague also attended the Board discussion.
Results collated, 
reported and 
evaluated
BOARD EVALUATION AND ACTIVITIES
Governance

120
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Planned enhancements include
Board Papers – Board papers contain high-quality, data-rich analysis 
but could benefit from being shortened and less technical. We will 
therefore continue to enhance the information provided to the Board to 
ensure the right information is provided in a digestible format while 
outlining the necessary facts of a given proposal.
Ongoing training – Induction sessions that combine new and existing 
Directors proved valuable. The same applied for visits to key sites, which 
also led to increased quality acquaintance time among Directors, 
time-efficiency for the management team and further opportunities 
for Non-executive Director workforce engagement.
We will look to build on our current processes with the development of 
a calendar of Board travel, that all Directors can opt into, aligned to 
the Board calendar of forthcoming topics. In addition, details of other 
induction sessions, Committee trips and Chair visits will be shared 
with Directors enabling them to also attend as appropriate.
Chair
Ongoing performance evaluation – Directors strongly commend 
the Chair’s diligence, openness, Board preparation, knowledge of the 
business and positive relationship with the Chief Executive Officer. They 
also highlight his skill in strengthening individual Director performance 
through coaching and feedback, which he provides in real-time via his 
regular contact with all Directors between meetings, rather than awaiting 
the formal annual process, which many found profiled him as the best 
Chair of their Non-executive Director careers. On the improvement side, 
Directors relayed to the Chair the organisational feedback they had 
received regarding the Chair’s suggestions or questions to the business 
sometimes being misinterpreted as instruction requiring specifically 
responsive extra work versus simply provoking thought or deepening 
Board understanding which was recognised as the likely actual intention. 
A few Directors also queried whether deliberations on certain Board 
decisions could have been brought forward where feasible. The Chair 
fully accepted the feedback and agreed to reflect and act upon it.
BOARD ACTIVITIES
A rolling Board agenda is reviewed at Board meetings, providing effective 
forward management of meetings and focused discussions. The agenda 
for each Board meeting includes a number of regular and important items, 
including reports from the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 
Officer, other Executive Committee members and from each Board 
Committees. Further updates are provided from the various business 
functions and other key functions, including Investor Relations; Health and 
Safety, Security and Environment; HR; and Legal, as well as the Company 
Secretary. The Board also considers and approves the quarterly, half-year 
and full-year financial results and dividend announcements and, at most 
meetings, considers investment, divestment and/or financing proposals.
To enable purposeful debates and/or focus on particular aspects of 
agenda topics, including the impact on key stakeholders, Directors have 
an opportunity to specify information they require to be provided in 
advance of Board meetings. 
As in previous years, certain Board Committees and Non-executive 
Directors conducted site visits of various Shell operations and overseas 
offices. These visits were designed to provide Directors with first-hand 
insights into certain key portfolio positions. Directors also held various 
workforce engagements in these locations, as well as external stakeholder 
engagements, where feasible.
Some of the activities and areas of Board focus from the year, and where 
not described in further detail elsewhere in this Report, are summarised in 
the table below.
Topic Discussion/Activity/Updates included Examples of Outcome/Progress
Stakeholders 
considered 
Strategy and management
Management Day  ■ Reviewed and discuss the communications 
for the 2019 Management Day;
 ■ Reviewed and discussed Messaging to clarify 
Shell’s Net Carbon Footprint ambition; and
 ■ Considered trading, capital efficiency and 
supply chain management.
 ■ Considered feedback from the investor 
community regarding progress towards 
a world-class investment case; and
 ■ Feedback from investors on sustainability 
of medium-term growth potential.
  
External business 
environment
 ■ Frequent updates on activity occurring within 
industries and political environments in which 
Shell operates.
 ■ Considered potential risks and mitigation, 
where possible.
 
 
  
 Investor Community   Employees/Workforce/Pensioners  Regulators/Governments/NGOs  Communities  Customers  Suppliers/Strategic Partners
BOARD EVALUATION AND ACTIVITIES continued
Governance

121
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Topic Discussion/Activity/Updates included Examples of Outcome/Progress
Stakeholders 
considered 
Risk management and internal controls
Safety and 
Environment
 ■ In addition to regular updates from Management 
on health, safety, security and the environment, 
each Board meeting begins with a reflection or 
anecdote from a Director or Executive Committee 
member on the topic of values and/or safety. 
 ■ In Board meetings, Directors use learnings gained 
outside Shell to provide perspective and diversity 
of thought to Board discussions. At times, the 
Executive Directors have also provided practical 
commentary and examples of how safety has 
permeated Shell culture.
 
 
Risk management 
and internal 
control
 ■ Review Risk Report, covering external trends, 
proposed changes to the Group’s strategic 
and operational risks and deeper analysis 
of the Conduct Risk Register.
 ■ Proposed changes.
 
  
Board membership and other appointments
Board 
membership, other 
appointments
 ■ Directors’ tenure, external commitments, conflicts 
of interests and succession planning.
 ■ Policy for approving external commitments.
 ■ Non-executive Director appointments and 
changes to Committee membership.
  
Talent overview 
and senior 
succession review
 ■ RDS Senior Succession and Resourcing Review 
covering Executive Director and Executive 
Committee (EC) succession, EC direct reports 
and the senior executive group.
 ■ Enhanced insight of Shell talent and 
future leaders; and
 ■ Assurance of robust succession and 
contingency plans.
Remuneration Committee updates
Remuneration and 
reward matters
 ■ Reporting and society opinions on executive pay, 
implementation of UK Shareholder Rights Directive, 
AGM reflections, Remuneration Policy.
 ■ The Remuneration Committee accelerated a 
planned 2020 policy change which would 
withdraw element of CEO and CFO bonuses, 
making these effective from 2019, following 
consideration of the views of proxy voting firms 
and other key stakeholders.
  
Corporate governance matters
Distributions to 
shareholders
 ■ Reviewed dividend payment process in 
conjunction with strategic ambition of 
world-class investment case; and
 ■ Discussed the dividend payments that had 
remained unclaimed by shareholders for 
a period of more than twelve years.
 ■ Streamlining the dividend payment process 
by introducing a US dollar option and moving 
to fully electronic settlement in US dollars, 
euros and sterling; and
 ■ Agreed that the payments discussed should 
be forfeited (as per the Articles), and donated 
to The Shell Foundation. 
 
 
 
Governance  ■ Ethics and compliance, including how to continue 
to build a strong corporate culture; 
 ■ Senior management succession and corporate 
governance developments;
 ■ Modern Slavery Statement and assurance;
 ■ The Code, changes to process and reporting; 
 ■ Other regulatory and legislative requirements; and
 ■ Review and assessment of Shell’s governance 
practices against the new Code.
 ■ HR strategy on senior succession and regulatory/
legislative disclosures approved; and
 ■ New requirements outlined in the Code were 
discussed and agreed.
 
   
 Investor Community   Employees/Workforce/Pensioners  Regulators/Governments/NGOs  Communities  Customers  Suppliers/Strategic Partners
Governance

122
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
UNDERSTANDING AND ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Shell’s commitment to public collaboration and stakeholder engagement 
is inherent in our three strategic ambitions, most notably in our ambitions 
to thrive through the energy transition and sustain a strong societal licence 
to operate. Understanding the views and interests of our key stakeholders 
is important to the Board, and the Directors have taken steps to consider 
stakeholders’ views in Board discussions and decision-making, as 
described on page 121. In addition to direct Board engagement, 
significant levels of engagement are undertaken by the broader business 
ahead of many of Shell projects or activities. This engagement is often 
governed by formulated policies, control frameworks, regulation, 
legislation and may differ by region.
We have categorised our key stakeholders into six groups. Where 
appropriate, each group is considered to include both current and 
potential stakeholders. Shell stakeholders include: Investor Community, 
Employees/Workforce/Pensioners, Regulators/Governments/NGOs, 
Communities, Customers and Suppliers/Strategic Partners. 
Site visits
The Chair, certain Board Committees and Non-executive Directors 
conduct site visits of various Shell operations and overseas offices. 
These visits are designed to provide Directors with first-hand insights into 
portfolio positions. Directors also held various workforce engagements 
in these locations, as well as external stakeholder engagements. 
New Energies, the Energy Transition and the Shell 
Power Strategy
During 2019, the Board visited the USA (Colorado and California) and 
SESCo visited operations in Singapore to gain a better understanding of 
Shell businesses in these countries and elements of the energy transition. 
The visits included engagements with different internal and external 
stakeholders and interest groups which provided the Directors with 
multiple perspectives and considerations on the energy transition 
including the impact on communities, companies and Shell itself.
Shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of two-way communication with 
the Company’s shareholders. The Chair, the Deputy Chair and Senior 
Independent Director, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 
Officer and the Executive Vice President Investor Relations each meet 
regularly with major shareholders and report the views of such 
shareholders to the Board. Committee Chairs also seek engagement with 
shareholders on significant matters related to their areas of responsibility. 
Over the year, the Chair met with 76 major shareholders including at 
roadshows. The Deputy Chair, Senior Independent Director and 
Remuneration Chair met with 70 shareholders over the course of the year. 
A variety of topics were discussed.
Shareholders can also contact the Company directly via a dedicated 
email address or via dedicated shareholder telephone numbers, provided 
on the inside back cover of this report. Shell’s website also contains 
information for institutional and retail shareholders alike.
The Company’s registrar operates an internet access facility for registered 
shareholders, providing details of their shareholdings. Facilities are also 
provided for shareholders to lodge proxy appointments electronically. The 
Corporate Nominee service, facilitated by Equiniti, provides a facility for 
investors to hold their shares in the Company in paperless form.
Board Governance Event
In the past, the Board has held a governance event, “Board 
Engagement Day” that is attended by Directors including the Chair, 
Senior Independent Director, Audit Committee Chair and SESCo Chair. 
This is a biennial event providing investors with an overview of the Board’s 
roles, activities and its key focus areas including stakeholder engagement. 
The last event was in December 2018. The event covered topics relevant to 
the Code including stakeholder engagement expectations, Chair tenure 
and diversity and inclusion on the Board and in the senior management 
talent pipeline. Attendees could also provide feedback to Directors via a 
question and answer session, and also informally over refreshments after 
the event. The next event is scheduled for the latter part of 2020.
The table below further demonstrates examples of various ways in 
which the Board or others (providing feedback to the Board) engaged 
with stakeholders during 2019. Further insight on our engagement with 
stakeholders can be found within our Sustainability Report and our report 
on payments to governments, scheduled for publication in April 2020.
Engagement before event Event/Activity Engagement following event
Annual General Meeting in the Netherlands & Annual shareholder presentation in London [A]
Directors engaged with 
investors ahead of the event 
on a number of matters, 
including those being voted 
on at the AGM.
As well as the Company giving a balanced report of results and progress at each AGM, all shareholders 
had an opportunity to ask questions in person. Shareholders also engaged with Directors prior to and 
after the formal business of the AGM and informally over refreshments.
A separate engagement not part of the AGM was provided in the UK. Shareholders (predominantly retail 
investors) heard about the Company’s progress and asked questions in person. 
A number of additional 
engagements including 
follow-up meetings and 
answering of queries.
The Responsible Investment Annual Briefing [B]
Directors engaged with 
investors ahead of the event on 
a number of matters, including 
the agenda, which was based 
on topics of interest. Additional 
speakers from outside Shell, 
NGOs and charities also invited. 
The addition of non-Shell speakers added an interesting perspective and dimension to the presentations 
and discussions which covered our three strategic ambitions in the context of sustainable development. The 
speakers included representatives from the Human Rights & Business Initiative, the International Union for 
the Conservation of Nature, and the World Business Council of Sustainable Development. This event also 
served as an excellent opportunity to hear from investors and other stakeholders on Environmental, Social 
and Governance issues which is gaining prominence as a topic amongst the stakeholder community.
Following the event, there 
were a number of additional 
engagements including 
follow-up meetings and 
presentations 
with stakeholders.
Engagement with three leading climate scientists
The Board continued to 
commit time to this topic 
throughout the year. The Chair 
engaged with presenters in 
preparation for the Board 
engagement.
This engagement increased the Board’s and the Executive Committee’s understanding of the underlying 
science of climate change and helped provide a clearer understanding of this key driver of the energy 
transition. The engagement included presentations from the scientists and the discussions/presentations:
 ■ were valuable to leaders that are not deep into the science but are charged with navigating the 
energy transition;
 ■ built further foundations for future updates as the world’s understanding of the science advances 
and suggests the best sources of information;
 ■ described key scientific discovery that is underway that could impact actions by governments, 
business and the population overall; and 
 ■ included subjects that often do not make the popular press coverage but could be important to 
the organisation.
The Board recognises the 
significance and importance of 
this topic to all stakeholders and 
Shell’s business operations, both 
now and in the future. The Board 
reflected on and used learnings 
from the session as background 
considering short-term and future 
investment/divestment decisions, 
financial and operational plans.
Governance

123
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Engagement before event Event/Activity Engagement following event
MD19 [C]
The Board reviewed and 
approved the Management 
Day 2019 (MD19) material and 
outlook and provided feedback 
to the CEO and CFO.
Engaged with investors on the progress of delivery of Shell’s 2020 outlook and plans for positioning the 
Company for the future of energy, into the next year and further. The session also included presentations 
by business Directors and a high-level “question and answer” session. Investors were also provided 
with opportunities to pose detailed business-specific questions in “business breakout panels”.
Roadshows with Executive 
Committee Members were 
held in London and the US.
Remuneration Committee Chair address
A number of calls with proxy 
voting agencies and investors 
to engage on potential 
Remuneration Policy changes.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee/Senior Independent Director provided an update on 
remuneration and the Company’s policy via a video published on the Shell website. He had met and 
engaged with major investors during a roadshow conducted in November 2019, around choices to be 
made as part of the 2020 Remuneration Policy update including proposed changes, use of discretionary 
measures and energy transition in remuneration.
Investors were able to liaise 
with the Board and discuss their 
views and opinions; these views 
were shared with the REMCO, 
Board and the Chief HR & 
Corporate Officer to further 
formulate the policy.
Chair Roadshow 
A number of preparation 
meetings were held to provide 
insight into key topics of 
interest to the investor 
community.
The Chair of the Board provided an update on the governance of Shell and key investors had 
opportunities to ask questions to the Chair. Key topics included governance, remuneration, 
energy transition and business outlook.
Investors were able to engage 
with the Chair and there was 
also subsequent dialogue with 
Investor Relations.
Board visits to Colorado and California
The Board provided guidance 
to the planning team ahead of 
the visit to formulate the 
agenda and ensure that key 
areas of interest were 
covered.
In addition to engagements with various different stakeholders and external experts, the Board met with 
academics, policy and business leader members of the External Advisory Board, which was established to 
provide the business with external perspectives in Power and Mobility domains. The Board also visited the 
National Renewable Energy Laboratory to witness the science and engineering of energy efficiency, 
sustainable transportation and renewable power technologies. Directors also met with employees and 
local stakeholders including government representatives, partners and start-ups which Shell has invested in.
Audit Committee visit to the finance operations centre in Chennai and the IT Hub in Bangalore
Discussions were held with 
Audit Committee members 
ahead of the visit to formulate 
the agenda and ensure that 
key areas of interest were 
covered.
Chennai and Bangalore – Engagements covered presentations from a number of individuals from various 
parts of the business, on matters such as data analytics and engineering, market risk, reporting and 
analysis and centres of excellence, digitalisation, and the context of the IT hub, local collaboration with 
Shell retail operations, process automation and how the business contributes to Shell’s overall strategy on 
digitalisation. Further, the Committee received an overview of the Shell India Diversity and Inclusion 
Network, and spent time with the women’s network, senior leaders and local employees.
The Committee gained an 
understanding of the operations 
and met with the local teams in 
both regions, gaining a deeper 
understanding of the different 
processes and challenges the 
business and its workforce 
faces.
SESCo visit to Singapore
Discussions were held with the 
SESCo Committee members 
ahead of the visit to formulate 
the agenda and ensure that 
key areas of interest were 
covered.
The Committee met and engaged with a range of representatives from the contractor workforce, 
communities and social investment partners. Other engagements were held with Shell’s partners in the 
energy transition, a women’s network, government and the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development. The Directors also had lunch with frontline staff and extended leadership team members. 
Over the course of these various engagements, a range of topics were considered and discussed 
including process safety and the environment and societal expectations.
This visit provided Directors with 
many insights, including Shell’s 
broad and growing capability 
in developing cleaner energy 
solutions and the energy 
transition journey in Singapore.
Director Visits included
Discussions were held with 
the respective Directors 
ahead of the visit to formulate 
the agenda and ensure 
that key areas of interest 
were covered.
Shell QGC Midstream operations in Queensland, Australia 
The visit included a site tour of the Control room, the LNG plant and the maintenance centre, providing 
opportunity to engage with the workforce in each location. The Director also spent time with the local 
leadership team, graduates, engineers and others from the broader functions.
Houston
The Director attended the Engagement with Emerging Leaders meeting. This is a formal programme 
established to develop US-based Senior Executive potential talent. The group meets quarterly with the US 
Country Coordination Team and is led by the US Country Chair. These meetings provide an opportunity 
for cross-business collaboration and networking. The Director also toured the remote drilling centre and 
received an update on how technology has been instrumental in delivering continuous improvement, 
optimisation and standardisation for the drilling of wells. Further, they received an overview of the 
lubricants business and spent time with global brand managers, marketing and commercial teams.
Permian Basin
The Directors received updates from senior leaders, a tour of the central processing facility, drilling rig 
and other operations.
Shell Energy
During their visit, Directors met with Shell Energy CEO and the Executive Team. In addition, Directors toured 
the offices meeting several teams, including leaders from customer services, customer experience, continuous 
improvement, and telecommunications where they were able to learn more about recent changes to a 
customer-centric operating model and growth plans for broadband operations.
The visits provided Directors 
further opportunity to engage 
with the workforce, and gain a 
deeper understanding of the 
business and its operations.
[A] T he London shareholder meeting was attended by the Chair, CEO and CFO.
[B]
 A
ttended by the CEO and Chair of the SESCo, along with the Senior Independent Director.
[C]
 A
ttended by CEO and CFO.
Governance

124
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
WORKFORCE ENGAGEMENT
The publication of the new UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
“Code”), and The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 
2018, now require companies to report on their engagement with their 
employees and wider workforce. The Code outlines three suggested 
workforce engagement approaches. Following an analysis of Shell’s 
application of the Code in late 2018 and over the course of 2019, the 
Nomination and Succession Committee (NOMCO) and Board reviewed, 
considered and discussed Shell Group’s and Board’s existing workforce 
engagement. Although the Board and NOMCO recognised merit in each 
of the Code’s workforce engagement mechanism proposals, it noted that 
boards must consider the size and structure of their business, including its 
international workforce scope, and select an approach within that context 
that most practically delivers the underlying spirit and ambition of the 
Code even if it is not one of the three prescribed approaches. The Code 
is also supportive of alternate methods where an explanation is provided.
The Code states that its use of the term ‘workforce’ is not meant to align 
with legal definitions of workforce, employee, worker or similar terms. 
However, for a global organisation bound by the laws of more than 
70 countries, blurring clearly prescribed legal definitions that impact 
complex issues (such as local HSSE requirements, work contract terms, 
legal accountability, employment rights) or merging two definitions of 
the same term could have notable impact on the business, its operations 
and its stakeholder relationships (including with suppliers). Therefore, 
Shell considers its workforce to be employees of companies in the Shell 
Group. However, the Board also engages with others outside of this group 
(for example, on site visits), and some of this engagement is shared on 
page 122.
Although our reporting and formal engagement focuses predominantly 
on our employees, all individuals working on Shell sites (including Shell 
offices) are required to undertake certain Shell training (for example, 
HSSE and Code of Conduct-related training). Adhering to the Life 
Saving Rules (HSSE) and the Code of Conduct compliance obligations is 
included within our contracts with suppliers, and the Shell Global Helpline 
is available for all workers to report matters of concern. 
For many years Shell has recognised the importance of engaging 
with its workforce. Engagement is especially important in maintaining 
strong business delivery in volatile times of change. We therefore strive 
to maintain a dialogue between management and our workforce – 
both directly and where appropriate, through representative bodies. 
Management regularly engages with the workforce through a range 
of formal and informal channels, including via emails from the Chief 
Executive Officer and other senior executives, webcasts, townhalls, 
team meetings, face-to-face gatherings, breakfast briefings, interviews 
with senior management and online publications via our intranet. 
The Board considers effective engagement a key element of its 
understanding of the Company’s ability to create value as it recognises 
that our people are our greatest asset. Workforce views can help inform 
the Board on matters such as operational effectiveness, Shell culture, 
risk identification and strategy development and delivery.
The Board considers the current workforce engagement approach 
effective. The information provided in the table below exemplifies 
various methods of Board engagement.
Board’s Direct Engagements with the Workforce
Informal Engagement 
Chair lunches are held from time to time with a select cross-section of employees in 
various regions. The Board has also held an informal drinks/discussion with select 
cross-section of employees; for example, to meet future leaders and listen to current 
issues, challenges, concerns and opportunities. 
Nomination and Succession Committee members meet with various senior leaders 
and high-potential individuals throughout the year. 
 
The Chair has commented that his meetings provide great insight into the Shell 
culture and our capacity to deliver on our strategy and purpose. He notes that 
such direct engagement provides snapshots of employee perspectives across the 
various countries and cultures within which Shell operates. Further, he considers 
this a helpful method of engaging with high-potential-talent individuals in an 
informal environment. 
Off-Site Visits
People engagements during Board and/or Committee off-sites. 
   
Meeting talent/leadership teams 
Townhall discussions 
Company Chair engaging with various individuals by attending team meetings 
Country visits (China, India, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Malaysia, the Netherlands, 
Poland, Singapore, UK and USA). 
   
Through these more formal engagements, the Chair and other Non-executive 
Directors (either individually or with their Committees) are able to deepen their 
understanding of how the Company’s purpose, strategy and values are embedded 
in particular sites and countries. The benefits are mutual as the Board obtains direct 
insight into local business operations and projects as well as local strengths and 
challenges while our people have an opportunity to better understand the Board 
and provide direct feedback on topics of importance to them, their business or 
function and/or their location.
Employee Network and Related Sessions
Conducted by Directors with for example, female Directors engaging with Shell 
women’s networks. 
Shell female employees who have engaged with female Directors informally 
(via dinners or through women networks) credit those engagements for not only 
providing them Board exposure but also in affording them the opportunity to 
communicate about gender-specific topics and to learn from established female 
leaders. Directors involved in these engagements likewise note the opportunity to 
enrich their understanding of the female perspective within Shell as well as the depth 
of Shell talent and effectiveness of Shell’s Diversity and Inclusion initiatives.
Committee Engagement Key:
 
   BOARD  AUDIT   SESCo 
 NOMCO  EXEC DIRECTORS
Governance

125
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Formal reports and information updates to the Board
Shell People Survey (anonymous survey facilitated externally)
Annual Board discussion to keep it fully apprised of employee engagement levels 
and quality of leadership across Shell’s workforce, as well as a broad range of 
subjects including collaboration, working conditions, the job, people development, 
reputation, benefits and rewards, diversity and inclusion, operational excellence, 
and responsible business. 
 
The Board considers the Shell People Survey one of its principal tools used to 
measure employee engagement, motivation, affiliation and commitment to Shell. 
It provides insights into employee views and has a consistently high response rate. 
In 2019, the response rate was 85.5%, which was an increase of 3.5% compared 
to 2018. The average employee engagement score was 78 points out of 100, 
an increase of one point compared to 2018, and among leading results across 
a range of industries. 
The Board also utilises this engagement to, for example, understand how Shell 
is leveraging the survey outcomes in: i) data analytics, for example, to identify 
potential correlative relationships between employee engagement and safety or 
ethics & compliance incidents; and ii) strengthening Company culture and values. 
Senior Succession Resourcing Review
The annual Senior Succession and Resourcing Review focused on the strength of 
senior leadership and plans for its development and succession, while highlighting 
the breadth, depth and diversity of its pipeline, the developing profile of the 
leadership cadre, and recruitment and attrition levels. 
 
The Nomination and Succession Committee noted the disciplined approach to 
succession planning and execution, the holistic view taken of leadership and the 
high levels of information and transparency underpinning it. It particularly noted 
improved focus on performance and on the talent pipeline of high potential 
individuals beyond just senior management levels. Along with the results of the 
annual Shell People Survey, it provided a deeper understanding of culture, 
leadership talent and the strong levels of employee engagement across 
the business.
Assessment of key trends and material incidents
Presented by Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer. This is based on the established 
channels for staff and others to file complaints or report on suspected breaches 
in relation to the Shell General Business Principles (SGBP), the Code of Conduct 
or any breaches of law or regulations, including accounting control and 
auditing concerns. 
  
The update covers Shell employees and our wider stakeholder base. The Board 
(including via the Audit Committee and SESCo) obtains insight into incidents and on 
reporting levels and remediation which provide indicators of conduct risks and, 
together with the related Board reports noted below, of the strength of embedding 
and awareness of the Code of Conduct and SGBP obligations and employees’ 
comfort levels in raising incidents. 
The Shell Control Framework
Significant HSSE, Ethics and Compliance, and more broadly, business control 
incidents are brought to the attention of senior management and Board through 
regular reporting. 
   
The Board discussed how the organisation could learn more from incidents and 
how the business could drive safety performance to the next level. The Board 
requested additional information on incidents from both Shell operated and 
non-operated ventures and a greater visibility of incidents and investigations.
Conduct Risk Dashboard
Provides a consolidated overview of statistics on Code of Conduct violations. 
Risk indicators in the Dashboard are potentially linked to organisational culture. 
Examples that the Dashboard measures are: the number of terminations as a result 
of formally investigated Code of Conduct violations, and the number of overdues 
on mandatory Ethics & Compliance training. 
 
A further update on positive culture and identity leadership is scheduled to be 
provided, along with an update on conduct risk, to the Board and relevant 
Board Committees in 2020.
Speaking Up in Shell
Data and insights are provided from the Global Helpline, Shell Ethics & 
Compliance Organisation and the Shell People Survey. The SESCo endorsed the 
recommendations with focus on how Speaking Up supports a caring organisation 
and encourages staff to come forward to raise a concern in good faith. 
  
The Audit Committee is kept updated when matters highlighted through the Global 
Helpline are investigated, and on the associated remediations. For more information 
please see page 133 within the Audit Committee report.
Assurance activities
Assurance activities, including items raised by Businesses and Functions (through 
the Group Assurance Letters Process) and independent assurance (from Internal 
Audit, HSSE, Ethics and Compliance, Reserves Assurance and Reporting), provide 
additional comfort to the Board of the commitment to high standards of risk 
management and internal control. The assurance activities ensure that work 
can be done safely, within regulatory frameworks. 
  
The information provided within these reports further support the Board’s 
annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk management 
and internal control and feed into the Group Scorecard, which staff bonuses 
are calculated against.
Other
The Board receives updates on other specific topics. For example, to inform the 
Board’s focus on enhancing ethical leadership and assuring ethical decision-making 
in the organisation it received updates on the roll out of the Ethical Leadership 
Expectations Programme (ELEP). 
 
To better understand the success of the ELEP as reported to the Board, the Chair and 
the SESCo Chair attended a three-hour ELEP session themselves alongside Shell 
senior executives. The Chair and SESCo Chair shared feedback from the session 
in the January 2019 Board meeting with each commending the programme for 
authentically promoting open and meaningful dialogue and shared learnings 
on the Company’s values and leadership behaviours as well as on the practical 
dilemmas and business pressures confronting Shell leadership within those topics.
Committee Engagement Key:
 
   BOARD  AUDIT   SESCo 
 NOMCO  EXEC DIRECTORS
Governance

126
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
NOMINATION AND SUCCESSION COMMITTEE
CHAD HOLLIDAY
Chair of the Nomination and Succession Committee
Highlights of 2019
 ■ Appointment of two new Executive Committee members
 ■ Appointment of new Non-executive Director and continued 
discussion on Non-executive Director succession
Priorities for 2020
 ■ Appointment and onboarding of new Non-executive Directors
 ■ Continued discussions on Non-executive Director, and Executive 
Committee, succession
COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE FOR 2019
Committee member Member since 
Maximum 
possible 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
% of
meetings 
attended
Chad Holliday (Chair) May 19, 2015 5 5 100%
Euleen Goh July 1, 2019 3 3 100%
Gerard Kleisterlee May 23, 2018 5 5 100%
Linda Stuntz June 1, 2016 5 5 100%
PURPOSE
The Nomination and Succession Committee (the “Committee”) leads 
the process for appointments to the Board and Senior Management [A] 
positions, ensures plans are in place for orderly, well planned succession, 
and oversees the development of a diverse succession pipeline of 
candidates. Further, it reviews the Company’s policy and strategy on 
diversity and inclusion, and monitors the effectiveness of diversity 
initiatives. It makes recommendations to the Board on corporate 
governance guidelines, as referred to in the Chair’s statement. 
[A] ” Senior management” refers to the Executive Committee and the Company Secretary.
TALENT MANAGEMENT AND SUCCESSION
The Committee manages Board and Senior Management succession 
against clear and agreed selection principles. For Non-executive Director 
succession, the Committee adopted in January 2019 a set of revised 
Principles for the Strategic Composition of the Board. The principles 
include both quantitative and qualitative principles, considering both:  
(i) the overall Board composition and diversity of gender, nationality, 
background experience and skillsets desired that align with the 
Company’s strategy and purpose; and (ii) the values, attitudes, and 
behaviours expected. For Senior Management succession, the principles 
include process-specific principles, including the identification and 
development of succession candidates and the long-term nature of the 
succession planning process. Each Committee meeting includes both sets 
of principles and, utilising those, the Committee executes changes through 
a well-defined and diligent process with overall Board engagement. The 
Committee agrees candidate profiles and meets prospective candidates 
well ahead of any selection decision being necessary. It also engages the 
Board early in the process to ensure all Directors have an opportunity to 
meet and assess prospective candidates. Consequently, some of the 
leaders whom the Committee and Board have engaged with extensively 
in the past are now members of the Board or the Executive Committee.
The Committee maintains short, medium and long-term succession 
plans, and thus an overview of potential candidates multiple years 
ahead It oversees a continuous and proactive process of planning, 
review, engagement and assessment, taking into account the strategic 
priorities and main factors affecting the long-term success and future 
of the Company and the associated diversity, skillsets and breadth 
of perspectives needed to help achieve that in the evolving 
business environment. 
The Committee is fully engaged with the broader senior succession 
and resourcing across Shell, and with the overall end-to-end approach 
to talent management that is adopted. This ranges from recruitment to 
leadership identification and from leadership development to leadership 
appointment, all of which are underpinned by talent priorities and a 
commitment to advancing Diversity and Inclusion.
Diversity of leadership
Female representation has steadily improved in recent years. Amongst 
overall recruitment, Shell companies consistently recruit 40% females, 
and amongst graduates this is approaching 50%. Female representation 
in the top 1,400 roles (“Senior Leadership” positions) has been raised by 
2.4 percentage points during 2019 to 26.4%, and further improvement is 
actively pursued. Nationality diversity, such as Asian and American talent, 
continues to advance in a manner reflective of the business outlook. Senior 
Leadership is a Shell measure and different from that which we are 
required to report under the Code, being female representation in Senior 
Management and their direct reports, where the percentage is 28.9%.
“We know we play a crucial role today in 
selecting those who make the future of Shell. 
The recognition of that responsibility not only 
humbles us but also drives our passion to 
entrust that future into the hands and hearts 
of those that will safeguard and grow it.”
CHAD HOLLIDAY
Chair
Governance

127
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
The Committee recognises that improving diversity at each level across 
the Shell Group is crucial, and therefore takes an active role in reviewing 
diversity objectives and strategies for the group as a whole, and 
monitoring the impact of diversity and inclusion initiatives. 
More information on diversity within Shell is included within the Our 
People section on page 99.
Committee Activity
In addition to its considerations regarding succession, the Committee 
made recommendations on corporate governance guidelines, monitored 
compliance with corporate governance requirements and made 
recommendations on disclosures connected with corporate governance. 
The Committee continues to monitor and review this area, as well as 
consider whether and how current Company governance matters should 
be strengthened. Further insight on some of the Committee’s areas of 
consideration in 2019 is provided below.
Succession [A] Topic of discussion/Example of Board activity
Recommendation  ■ Appointment of Neil Carson to the Board; and
 ■ Changes to the composition of the Board committees.
Review and 
oversight
 ■ Royal Dutch Shell Senior Succession Resourcing review.
Oversight  ■ Appointment of Wael Sawan as Upstream Director 
(replacing Andrew Brown); and
 ■ Appointment of Huibert Vigeveno as Downstream 
Director (replacing John Abbott).
Governance Topic of discussion/ Example of Board activity
Governing the 
Board and its 
committees
 ■ Reviewed its Principles for the Strategic Composition of 
the Board; and
 ■ Updated its Terms of Reference, and reviewed changes 
proposed to the Terms of Reference for other Committees 
and the Matters Reserved for the Board.
Regulation, 
legislation and 
other governance- 
related guidance
 ■ Alignment to the recommendations within the 2018 UK 
Corporate Governance Code;
 ■ Key governance matters impacting the Company’s 
external reporting; and
 ■ Other governance and regulatory changes agreed or 
proposed and their impact or potential impact on the 
Company, its processes and its reporting.
RDS matters
 ■ Considered any potential conflicts of interest and the 
independence of the Non-executive Directors;
 ■ Determined who would undertake the 2019 External Board 
Evaluation;
 ■ Reviewed the proposed changes to the Company’s Articles 
of Association, subsequently approved by shareholders 
at the 2019 AGM; and
 ■ Reviewed changes proposed to the dividend payment 
process (announced December 2019).
[A] T he Committee was assisted during the year by Russell Reynolds Associates (“Russell 
Reynolds”), an external global search company whose main role was to propose suitable 
candidates. Russell Reynolds does not have any connection with the Company other than 
that of search consultants. The Chair does not participate in discussions regarding his own 
succession. Russell Reynolds is a signatory to The Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive 
Search Firms which aims to improve board diversity.
Director Induction and Training
Following Board appointment, Directors receive a comprehensive 
induction tailored to their individual needs. This includes site visits 
and meetings with senior management to enable them to build up 
a detailed understanding of Shell’s business and strategy, and the 
key risks and issues that Shell faces.
As part of the Board evaluation, director induction was a discussion 
topic. Directors commented positively on the induction programme and 
reported that it is comprehensive, well-organised and fully in line with 
their expectations. Directors shared that they have been able not only to 
benefit from a comprehensive programme of meetings but also to steer the 
programme towards their own personal interests and information needs. 
Some of the areas Neil Carson’s induction has covered are 
provided below:
Company Operations and Strategy, including:
Strategy & Portfolio; Integrated Gas and New Energies; Downstream, 
including Chemicals, Retail and Global Commercial; Upstream; and 
Projects and Technology. Time was spent with the EC members managing 
these operations and senior leaders from the operations. Further, updates 
were provided with regard to the internal governance process, the Shell 
Control Framework, the Board’s calendar, minutes from earlier meetings, 
Company performance, operating plans and key business 
relationships. Neil also met with the Chief Internal Auditor.
The environment in which we operate, including:
Engagements were held with the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, 
Safety and Environment and senior leaders from the Sustainability 
Strategy team, and the Global Business Environment team, which is best 
known for developing forward-looking scenarios to support strategic 
thinking and direction-setting. Time was also spent with senior leaders 
from Investor Relations and Group Reporting and the Chief Human 
Resources and Corporate Director, the Legal Director and the 
Company Secretary.
Feedback on Board induction
“Given the complexity of the business, I 
believe that Director induction takes at least 
a year. The sessions with people in the business 
benefit from being gradually phased and 
aid the absorption of information. Site visits 
are incredibly helpful and can be utilised 
to a greater extent in the early stages of 
the programme.”
NEIL CARSON
Non-executive Director
Governance

128
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
PURPOSE
The Committee assists the Board in reviewing the practices and 
performance of the Shell Group of companies, primarily with respect 
to Safety, Environment including Climate Change, and Sustainability.
OVERVIEW
The Committee assesses Shell’s overall sustainability performance 
and provides input into Shell’s annual reporting and disclosures on 
sustainability. It also advises the Remuneration Committee on metrics 
relating to sustainable development and energy transition that apply 
to the Executive Committee scorecard and incentive programme.
The Committee also endorses Shell’s annual HSSE&SP assurance plan and 
reviews execution of the plan and audit outcomes.
In addition, it reviews and considers external stakeholder perspectives 
in relation to Shell’s business, and reviews how Shell addresses issues 
of public concern that could affect its reputation and licence to operate. 
Examples include plastic waste, human rights, and ethical conduct 
and culture. 
In line with the strategic importance of the Committee’s agenda, the 
Chair and the Chief Executive Officer regularly attend the Committee 
meetings for discussions on specific topics. The Committee appreciated 
the assistance throughout the year from the Projects & Technology 
Business Director, Harry Brekelmans, who continues to be a strong 
champion for sustainability within Shell. 
The overall accountability for sustainability within Shell is with the Chief 
Executive Officer and the Executive Committee. They are assisted by the 
HSSE&SP executive team.
ACTIVITIES
During 2019 the Committee reviewed its purpose and updated its terms 
of reference to ensure it focuses on the areas of most strategic importance 
to Shell.
It met regularly to review and discuss a range of prioritised topics. These 
included the safe and responsible operation of Shell’s facilities, 
environmental protection and greenhouse gas emissions, major incidents 
that impact safety and environmental performance, progress towards 
meeting Shell’s Net Carbon Footprint Ambition and short-term targets, 
and climate change and the energy transition. 
The topics discussed in greater depth included personal and process 
safety, Shell’s Net Carbon Footprint Ambition and the energy transition, 
and Shell’s ethics programme. The Committee also reviewed Shell 
companies’ operations and the challenges faced in Nigeria. 
SITE VISITS
One major site visit was conducted in 2019, which was to Singapore. 
Over three days the Committee met with Shell employees, staff, 
contractors, Government officials, local community leaders, and 
representatives from local non-governmental organisations to gain a 
deeper understanding of Shell’s business in Singapore. The Committee 
visited refinery operations at Palau Bukom and chemicals operations 
at Jurong Island, and reviewed Shell’s developing New Energies 
businesses in the country. 
SIR NIGEL SHEINWALD GCMG
Chair of the Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee
COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE FOR 2019
Committee 
Member
Member 
since 
Maximum 
possible 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
% of 
meetings 
attended
Sir Nigel Sheinwald 
(Chair of the Committee) July 1, 2012 8 8 100%
Neil Carson [A] June 1, 2019 4 3 75%
Catherine J. Hughes November 1, 2017 8 8 100%
Linda Stuntz May 23, 2018 8 8 100%
[A] N eil Carson was unable to attend the Committee meeting in October 2019 due to an 
immovable commitment which was scheduled prior to him joining the Shell Board.
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2019
During 2019, we reviewed the purpose of the Committee and 
transitioned from the Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee 
to become the Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee (the 
“Committee”). This sharpened focus will allow the Committee to play 
a more influential role in overseeing the practices and performance 
of the Company with respect to safety, environment including 
climate change, and broader sustainability issues.
FOCUS FOR 2020
In 2020, the Committee will continue with the sharpened focus areas 
established last year. The Committee will use site visits to examine Shell’s 
approach and performance across these focus areas. The Committee will 
also review Shell’s response to developments regarding climate change 
and the energy transition.
Governance

129
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Dear Shareholders, 
I am pleased to present our Audit Committee Report for 2019, having 
assumed chairmanship of the Audit Committee (AC) when Euleen 
Goh stepped down in June of last year. 
The primary role of the AC is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities in areas such as the integrity of financial reporting, the 
effectiveness of the risk management framework and internal control 
system as well as consideration of compliance matters. We are also 
responsible for assessing the quality of the audit performed by and the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor, and making a 
recommendation to the Board on the appointment or reappointment 
of the external auditor. Further, we oversee the work and quality of 
the internal audit function.
I meet regularly with the Chief Financial Officer, EVP Taxation and 
Controller, Chief Internal Auditor and the external auditor. Further, these 
same individuals attend every AC meeting as well as any other members 
of Shell’s management, as necessary, to provide in-depth analysis on 
specific topics or on more detailed technical matters that may arise. 
Over the course of a year, the AC has a rolling agenda covering a variety 
of standing matters such as the control framework for the reporting of 
Shell’s oil and gas reserves; information risk management; tax matters; 
and briefings from the Chief Internal Auditor on the effectiveness of Shell’s 
risk management and internal control system and on outcomes of 
significant audits and notable control matters. Specific attention is given 
to topics that we consider particularly significant, including issues and 
judgements relating to Shell’s Consolidated Financial Statements, as 
discussed in more detail later in this report. In 2019 in addition to standing 
matters, the AC addressed a number of areas of special focus including 
evaluating the first year of application of the new accounting standard 
IFRS 16 Leases; Shell’s Trading and Supply control framework; and the 
control framework for the reporting of Shell’s Net Carbon Footprint 
ambition. The AC visited Shell’s advanced security operations in the 
Netherlands, the finance operations centre in Chennai and the IT Hub in 
Bangalore. With these site visits we deepen our understanding of the 
operations in the respective locations and how they interface with Shell’s 
business functions. The visits also provide the AC with an opportunity to 
engage with a cross-section of Shell staff in each location. 
In closing I would like to take this opportunity to thank Euleen for her 
excellent chairmanship of the AC since 2016 and for the valuable insights 
she provided as both a member since September 2014 and as the Chair.
ANN GODBEHERE
Chair of the Audit Committee 
March 11, 2020 
ANN GODBEHERE 
Chair of the Audit Committee 
Focus areas for 2019
 ■ First-year application of IFRS 16 Leases
 ■ Shell’s Trading and Supply Control Framework
 ■ Net Carbon Footprint Assurance and Reporting Framework
 ■ Oil and Gas Reserves Control Framework
Priorities for 2020
 ■ Decommissioning
 ■ Integrated Risk Management
 ■ New Business Models and Ventures
 ■ Pensions
“The primary role of the AC is 
to assist the Board in fulfilling its 
oversight responsibilities in areas 
such as the integrity of financial 
reporting, the effectiveness of 
the risk management framework 
and internal control system as 
well as consideration of 
compliance matters.”
ANN GODBEHERE
Governance

130
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued
COMPOSITION AND MEETINGS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 
During 2019, the members and meeting attendance of the AC were 
as follows:
Committee 
Member
Member 
since 
Maximum 
possible 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
% of 
meetings 
attended
Ann Godbehere 
(Chair) May 23, 2018 6 6 100%
Euleen Goh [A] September 1, 2014 3 3 100%
Roberto Setubal October 1, 2017 6 6 100%
Gerrit Zalm March 8, 2017 6 6 100%
[A] E uleen Goh stood down as Chair and a member of the AC on June 30, 2019.
All members of the AC are financially literate, independent Non-executive 
Directors. In respect of the year ended December 31, 2019, for the 
purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code, Ann Godbehere 
qualifies as: a person with “recent and relevant financial experience” 
and competence in accounting; and, for the purposes of US securities 
laws, is an “audit committee financial expert”. 
The experience of the AC members outlined on page 130 demonstrates 
that the AC as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which 
Shell operates, as well as the necessary commercial, regulatory, financial 
and audit expertise required to fulfil its responsibilities. The AC members 
have gained further knowledge and experience of the sector as a result 
of their Board membership and through various site visits since their 
respective appointments. 
The AC covers a variety of topics in its meetings. These include both 
standing items that the AC considers as a matter of course, typically in 
relation to the quarterly financial reporting, control matters, accounting 
policies and judgements and reporting matters, and a range of topics 
relevant to Shell’s control framework.
The AC invites the Chief Financial Officer, the Legal Director, the Chief 
Internal Auditor, the Executive Vice President Taxation and Controller, 
the Vice President Accounting and Reporting and the external auditor to 
attend each meeting. The Chief Executive Officer attends each meeting 
where the quarterly, half-year and year-end results are discussed. The 
Chair of the Board also regularly attends the meetings. Other members 
of management attend when requested. The AC regularly holds private 
sessions separately with the external auditor and the Chief Internal 
Auditor without members of management, except for the Legal 
Director, being present.
RESPONSIBILITIES 
The roles and responsibilities of the AC as set out in its Terms of Reference 
are reviewed annually, taking into account relevant regulatory changes 
and recommended best practice. The key responsibilities of the AC 
include, but are not limited to:
 ■ Evaluating the effectiveness of the system of risk management 
and internal control; 
 ■ Reviewing the integrity of the financial statements, including annual 
reports, half-year reports, and quarterly financial statements; 
 ■ Reviewing and discussing with management the appropriateness 
of judgements involving the application of accounting principles 
and disclosure rules;
 ■ Advising the Board whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess Shell’s position and performance, business 
model and strategy; 
 ■ Reviewing the functioning of the Shell Global Helpline and reports 
arising from its operations;
 ■ Overseeing compliance with applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements, including monitoring ethics and compliance risks; 
 ■ Monitoring the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence 
of both the internal and external auditor; 
 ■ Assessing the internal and external auditor’s performance and 
effectiveness each year; and
 ■ Recommending to the Board the appointment or reappointment 
of the external auditor.
The AC keeps the Board informed of its activities and recommendations 
and the Chair of the AC provides an update to the Board after every AC 
meeting. The AC promptly reports concerns to the Board if it is not 
satisfied with or believes that action or improvement is required 
concerning any aspect of financial reporting, risk management and 
internal control, compliance or audit-related activities.
A copy of the AC’s Terms of Reference can be found at www.shell.com.
ACTIVITIES 
During 2019, the AC received comprehensive reports from management 
and the external auditor on a variety of topics related to management 
controls and accounting policies, practices and reporting. The AC 
also reviewed whistleblowing reports and internal audit reports, and 
considered management’s responses and conclusions to the various 
findings in these reports.
In addition to the items discussed under significant issues on page 133, 
the AC also dedicated time to the following matters during 2019:
 ■ Trading and Supply’s Control Framework. Following its 2018 visit 
to the Trading and Supply office in London and given the growth in this 
area, the AC continued to focus on key control matters and 
improvements in processes underway within Trading and Supply. The 
AC was briefed on various actions which management is undertaking 
to further strengthen controls, including system controls and new hires 
in the areas of compliance and risk management; 
 ■ Shell’s Net Carbon Footprint Control Framework. Following 
Shell’s announcement to link a Net Carbon Footprint target and other 
measures to executive remuneration starting in 2019, the AC reviewed 
the processes and procedures governing the annual preparation and 
assurance of Shell’s Net Carbon Footprint value. The AC considered 
the methodology, key aspects of the Net Carbon Footprint model, 
important control points, assurance mechanisms to validate the 
integrity of the data and disclosure, and the process for managing 
and verifying any changes to the model; 
 ■ Tax risks. In addition to the regular review of Shell’s tax position, the 
AC discussed with management the key tax risks stemming from the 
evolving tax landscape, including intensified audit scrutiny and 
increasing demands for transparency. The AC also discussed measures 
underway in response to these trends and developments, including for 
example Shell’s publication of its first Tax Contribution Report in 2019; 
 ■ Information Risk Management. The Chief Information Officer 
briefed the AC on the activities undertaken in 2019 with respect to 
information risk management, information security controls, security 
improvement initiatives and Shell’s cyber monitoring and defence 
capabilities and controls. The AC discussed with the Chief Information 
Officer the evolving digital landscape and the steps management is 
taking to manage change, including planned activities for 2020; and 
 ■ Oil and Gas Reserves Control Framework. The AC was briefed 
on the framework in place to ensure accurate reserve information is 
reported in an efficient manner. The AC considered the processes and 
controls in place to assure compliance with reporting requirements and 
annual updates to maintain a robust framework.
Governance

131
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
The AC also reviewed: the year-end reported proved oil and gas reserves, 
including management judgements and adjustments made to reflect 
changes in geological, technical, contractual and economic information, 
the Brent crude oil and Henry Hub natural gas long-term price assumptions; 
estimated refining margins; discount rates used for financial reporting, 
particularly with respect to impairment testing and decommissioning 
and other provisions (see Note 2 to the “Consolidated Financial 
Statements” on pages 195-204 for further information); and the 
effectiveness of financial controls. 
The AC discussed with the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer his report 
on compliance matters, including an overview of the effectiveness of the 
Shell ethics and compliance programme in managing ethics and 
compliance risk in Shell’s business activities, regulatory developments and 
compliance risks. The AC also discussed investigations of cases involving 
ethics and compliance concerns. The AC discussed management’s findings 
in such cases to satisfy itself that a rigorous process had been followed, 
and, where appropriate, learnings had been embedded by management 
into the systems and controls of the organisation. 
The AC was briefed on litigation matters (see “Governance Framework” 
on page 117 and Note 25 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” 
on pages 235-237); new regulatory requirements, including the UK 
Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC’s) 2018 UK Corporate Governance 
Code, and various market studies and proposals into the external 
audit market. The AC was also briefed on corporate governance 
developments, including the EU Sustainable Finance initiatives 
and related legislative proposals.
In March 2019, the AC visited the advanced security operations in the 
Netherlands and in May 2019, the finance operations centre in Chennai 
and the IT Hub in Bangalore. These visits provided the opportunity for the 
AC to gain a deeper understanding of the various activities undertaken in 
each location including new technologies and digital opportunities, and 
how they support Shell’s business activities. Topics discussed during the 
site visits included: threat intelligence; incident management; vulnerability 
management and forensics; use of data analysis; bots; data engineering; 
market risk analyses; impairment analysis process; digitalisation; new 
applications/solutions development process; process automation; and 
Information Technology General Controls. The AC was provided with 
information on the external environment and the relevant regulations 
within each location’s operations. During the visits to the Chennai and 
Bangalore sites, the AC was also briefed on Shell’s operations in India. 
In 2019, the AC updated its Terms of Reference to reflect applicable 
provisions from the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code published 
by the FRC, including the Chair’s engagement with the Company’s 
Shareholders on significant matters related to the AC’s responsibilities 
and the AC’s oversight of the audit tender process. The Terms of Reference 
were also updated to reflect the AC’s responsibilities regarding Shell’s 
Global Helpline as well as ethics and compliance risks. 
As part of a review of Shell’s external reporting, the decision was taken to 
produce a separate Annual Report and Form 20-F beginning with fiscal 
year 2019. The AC provided its input on the merits of this initiative and 
considered the control framework which has been put in place to ensure 
the disclosures in both reports comply with relevant requirements. 
The AC discussed the Company’s 2019 Annual Report, half-year report 
and quarterly unaudited interim financial statements with management 
and the external auditor. The AC advised the Board that in its view the 
2019 Annual Report including the financial statements for the year 
ended December 31, 2019, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess Shell’s position and performance, business model and strategy 
(see “Governance” on page 114). To arrive at this conclusion, the AC 
critically assessed drafts of the 2019 Annual Report including the financial 
statements and discussed with management the process undertaken to 
ensure that these requirements were met. This process included: verifying 
that the contents of the 2019 Annual Report are consistent with the 
information shared with the Board and management during the year to 
support their assessment of Shell’s position and performance; ensuring 
that consistent materiality thresholds are applied for favourable and 
unfavourable items; considering comments from the external auditor; and 
receiving assurance from the Executive Committee (EC). The AC further 
reviewed and considered the Directors’ half-year and full-year statements 
with respect to the going concern basis of accounting. As noted in the 
viability statement, the Board also reviews the strategic plan which takes 
account of longer-term forecasts and a wide range of outlooks. Factors 
considered included: the impact of commodity prices; exchange rates; 
future carbon costs; major agreements such as LNG contract renewals; 
planned growth programmes; the financial framework; Shell’s business 
portfolio developments; the project funnel to support future growth; and 
running models of the financial impact of certain of Shell’s principal risks 
materialising using severe but possible scenarios. The AC considered the 
mitigating measures and sensitivities that management had applied to 
the modelling of such scenarios when evaluating the viability statement. 
The AC also considered external commentaries suggesting that viability 
statements should be extended beyond a period of three years and 
concluded that the three-year period selected by the Board for the review 
of Shell’s prospects, in line with the operating plan, remained appropriate. 
The AC supported the inclusion of Shell’s viability statement in 
“Governance” on page 165 and considered such statement in line 
with best practice guidance issued by the FRC.
The AC considered and approved the internal audit function’s annual 
audit plan, including focus areas for 2019 comprising of management 
controls of IT systems and infrastructure, information and data, operational 
assets and businesses, contracting and procurement, resource and project 
delivery, and ethics and compliance. The AC also considered and 
approved proposed updates to the Shell Internal Audit Charter which 
take into account the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and other 
regulatory changes. The AC assessed the performance of the internal 
audit function under the new Chief Internal Auditor, who was appointed 
with effect from September 2018, as effective. The AC also assessed the 
performance of the Chief Internal Auditor. With respect to the external 
auditor, the AC considered the annual external audit plan (including 
assessing whether the planned materiality levels and proposed resources 
to execute the audit plan were consistent with the audit scope) and 
approved related remuneration to ensure that the level of fees would 
allow an effective and high-quality audit to be conducted by the 
external auditor.
SYSTEM OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL 
CONTROL 
The AC reviewed reports on risks, controls and assurance, including the 
annual assessment of the system of risk management and internal control, 
in order to monitor the effectiveness of the procedures for internal control 
over financial reporting, compliance and operational matters. This 
included the Company’s evaluation of the internal control over financial 
reporting as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
Governance

132
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued
AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2019
Activities performed Frequency
Reporting
Reviewed Shell’s accounting policies and practices, including compliance with accounting and reporting standards
Reviewed the appropriateness of material judgements and the interpretation and application of accounting principles
Considered the integrity of the year-end financial statements and recommended to the Board whether the audited financial statements should be included in 
the Annual and statutory reports
Considered the integrity of the half-yearly report and quarterly financial statements
Reviewed management’s assessment of going concern and longer-term viability and endorsed the annual viability statement
Reviewed Shell’s policies with respect to earnings releases; financial performance information and earnings guidance; oil and gas reserves accounting and 
reporting; and significant financial reporting issues
Reviewed the internal controls in relation to financial reporting
Advised the Board of the AC’s view on whether taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess Shell’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
Assessed management’s response to significant audit findings and recommendations
Risk Management and Internal Control
Monitored the effectiveness of the Shell’s risk management and internal control system
Received briefings on regulatory developments
Reviewed management's SOX 404 assessment
Discussed the control framework related to Shell’s Net Carbon Footprint
Considered the control framework related to oil and gas reserves
Discussed significant matters arising from the internal audit with the Chief Internal Auditor, management and Ernst & Young LLP (EY)
Evaluated the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of the internal audit function including the competence, qualifications, expertise, compensation and budget
Reviewed and approved the internal audit function’s remit, charter and audit plan
Assessed the performance of the Chief Internal Auditor
Reviewed significant legal matters with Shell’s Legal Director
Discussed and reviewed Finance Group's succession planning
Reviewed the Chief Financial Officer’s significant business and investment transactions for potential conflicts or related party transactions
Assessed the Chief Financial Officer’s performance
Reviewed Shell’s information risk management
Reviewed Shell’s tax function, key tax risks and discussed evolving area of tax transparency
Received briefings regarding Shell’s Trading and Supply control framework
Reviewed and discussed Shell Finance’s IT strategy
External Auditor
Considered the independence of EY
Reviewed and approved the engagement letter for EY's annual audit of the Company's consolidated and parent company financial statements
Approved the remuneration for audit and non-audit services, including pre-approval of permissible non-audit services
Considered the annual external audit plan and monitored the execution and results of the audit
Monitored the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence and objectivity of EY
Reviewed the Company’s representation letter prior to signing by management
Assessed the performance and effectiveness of EY, the audit process, the quality of the audit, the handling of key judgements by EY, and EY’s response 
to questions from the AC
Recommended to the Board for the re-appointment of EY to be put to the Company’s shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting (AGM)
Compliance and Governance
Monitored the receipt, retention, investigation and follow-up actions of complaints received, including those from the Shell Global Helpline
Reviewed with the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer the implementation and effectiveness of the Ethics and Compliance programme and function
Discussed compliance with applicable external legal and regulatory requirements
Performed an evaluation of the AC’s performance and effectiveness
Reviewed and updated the AC’s Terms of Reference
Committee Activity Key:  Annually  Quarterly  Periodically
Governance

133
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES 
The AC assessed the following significant issues, including those related to Shell’s 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements. The AC was satisfied 
with how each of the issues below was addressed. As part of this assessment, the AC received reports, requested and received clarifications 
from management, and sought assurance and received input from the internal and external auditors.
Significant issues 
Subject Issue How the AC addressed the issue
DISPOSALS
  S ee Notes 5 and 8 to the 
“Consolidated Financial Statements” 
on pages 209 and 210-213.
Several significant disposals were completed in 2019. Prior to 
disposal, judgement is required in determining whether a sale 
is highly probable. If it is, the asset should be classified as held 
for sale, which is a trigger for impairment testing.
Judgement may also be required when accounting for the 
disposal, for example in estimating the amount of any 
liabilities retained by Shell. 
The AC considered the application of the held-for-sale 
classification, as well as the accounting for any ensuing 
disposals, including the divestment of Upstream assets in 
Denmark and US Gulf of Mexico, as well as Downstream 
assets in the US and Saudi Arabia. Particular attention was 
given to the assessments of any impairment indicators, as well 
as the accounting for any retained obligations, together with 
the assumptions used in determining any resulting charges 
and the tax treatment thereof.
IMPAIRMENTS
  S ee Notes 2 and 8 to the 
“Consolidated Financial 
Statements” on 198-204 
and 210-213 .
The carrying amount of an asset should be tested for 
impairment when there is an indication of possible change in 
carrying value such as a reduction in performance, other than 
short term, or being classified as held for sale.
The AC challenged whether there were indicators of 
impairment or reversals of previously recorded impairments 
and carefully considered the impairment assessments that 
were performed. In so doing, the AC reviewed the oil and gas 
price and refining margin outlooks against market 
developments and benchmarks. The potential impact of 
certain price sensitivities was also considered, together with 
the relevant discount rates applied. The AC also reviewed 
other significant inputs to impairment assessments, including 
proved oil and gas reserves. The AC also considered the 
potential impact of climate change and energy transition.
TAXATION
  S ee Notes 2 and 16 to the 
“Consolidated Financial 
Statements” on pages 
198-204 and 220-222.
The determination of tax assets and liabilities requires the 
application of judgement as to the ultimate outcome, which 
can change over time depending on facts and circumstances. 
In particular, the recognition of deferred tax assets requires 
management to make assumptions regarding future 
profitability and is therefore inherently uncertain.
The AC considered tax exposures, including those 
associated with 2019 disposals. The AC also evaluated the 
appropriateness of the recognition of deferred tax assets. 
The AC deemed the resulting assessments of uncertain tax 
exposures and the recognition of deferred tax assets to 
be reasonable.
FIRST-YEAR APPLICATION 
OF IFRS 16 
  S ee Note 3 to the 
“Consolidated Financial 
Statements” on page 204.
With effect from January 1, 2019, IFRS 16 Leases replaced IAS 
17 Leases. Under the new standard, all lease contracts, with 
limited exceptions, are recognised in the financial statements 
by way of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease 
liabilities. Shell applied the modified retrospective transition 
approach without restating comparative information. 
 
In March 2019, the IFRS Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) 
decision on recognition of lease liabilities in unincorporated 
joint operations was concluded. During Q2 and Q3 2019 
potential exposures were assessed to determine where Shell, 
as operator, has primary responsibility for the lease liability 
and would therefore be required to recognise these leases.
In 2018, the AC appraised and approved accounting 
policy changes resulting from the implementation of IFRS 16. 
In 2019, the AC reviewed management’s analysis of the 
first-year application of IFRS 16, including key judgements, 
and concurred with their recommendations.
The AC also reviewed the impact of the application of IFRS 
16 on the relevant Alternative Performance Measures (APM). 
The AC assessed management’s application of the IFRIC’s 
decision regarding the recognition of lease liabilities by 
a joint operator in relation to its interest in an 
unincorporated joint operation. 
DISCOUNT RATE FOR 
PROVISIONS
A review was carried out to consider the discount rate applied 
for provisions due to a lower rate for 30-year US Treasury 
bonds. Based on management’s review the discount rate for 
provisions was lowered from 4% to 3% in 2019. This was 
applied to provision balances at December 31, 2019.
The AC considered the impact that this change will have in 
relation to increasing provisions. There was specific discussion 
on the impact to decommissioning and restoration provisions 
and corresponding assets.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The internal audit function is an independent and objective assurance 
function which supports Shell in improving its overall control framework. 
The internal audit function contributes to the maintenance of a systematic 
and disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the design and 
effectiveness of Shell’s risk management, control and governance 
processes. The primary role of the internal audit function, through its 
assurance and investigation activities, is to safeguard value by protecting 
Shell’s assets, reputation and sustainability in relation to the organisation’s 
defined goals and objectives. 
The AC defines the responsibility and scope of the internal audit function 
and approves its annual plan. The Chief Internal Auditor reports 
functionally to the Chair of the AC and administratively to the Chief 
Financial Officer. The Chair of the AC approves, in consultation with 
the Chief Financial Officer, all decisions regarding the performance 
evaluation, appointment or removal of the Chief Internal Auditor. 
The Chief Internal Auditor periodically assesses whether the purpose, 
authority, and responsibilities of the internal audit function continue 
to enable it to accomplish its objectives. The results of this periodic 
assessment are communicated to the EC and AC. The Chief Internal 
Auditor maintains an internal quality assurance and improvement 
programme covering all aspects of the internal audit activities, to evaluate 
the conformance of these activities with the Chartered Institute of Internal 
Auditors’ standards. The programme also assesses the efficiency and 
effectiveness of the internal audit activities and identifies opportunities for 
improvement. The results of this annual assessment are communicated to 
the EC and AC and include a reconfirmation to the AC of the continued 
validity of the charter of the internal audit function, or proposals for an 
update. At least every five years, the effectiveness and quality of the 
internal audit function are assessed externally and the report shared 
with the AC. An independent assessment of internal audit was 
conducted in 2018 and the next such external assessment is 
planned to take place in 2023. 
Governance

134
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued
EXTERNAL AUDITOR
The AC is responsible for considering whether, in order to ensure continuing 
auditor quality and/or independence, there should be a rotation of the 
independent registered public accounting firm, including consideration of 
the advisability and potential impact of selecting a different independent 
public accounting firm. The Company’s current external auditor, EY, was 
first appointed at the AGM in May 2016 following the conclusion of a 
competitive tender process. The Company has complied with The Statutory 
Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use 
of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) 
Order 2014 for the 2019 financial year.
At the AGM in May 2019, a resolution to reappoint EY as external auditor 
until the conclusion of the next AGM was approved by shareholders. 
There are no current plans to retender the appointment. The current 
external audit partner is Allister Wilson, who has held this position since 
EY’s initial appointment as external auditor in 2016 and will therefore be 
rotating off the Shell audit following the 2020 audit engagement. As part 
of its annual assessment of EY, the AC discussed the upcoming partner 
rotation and measures EY has taken for an orderly transition.
The AC evaluated the objectivity and independence of EY and the quality 
and effectiveness of the external audit process. As part of its evaluation, 
the AC, considered: (i) the results of Shell management’s internal survey 
relating to EY’s performance over the financial year 2019; (ii) views and 
recommendations from management and the Chief Internal Auditor; (iii) 
EY’s audit quality priorities and actions by EY as part of its sustainable 
audit quality programme; and (iv) the AC’s own experiences, including 
interactions throughout the year with the external auditor. Key criteria of 
the evaluation included: professionalism in areas including competence, 
integrity and objectivity; constructive challenge of management and key 
judgements; efficiency, covering aspects such as service level and 
innovation in the audit process; thought leadership and value added; 
and compliance with relevant legislative, regulatory and professional 
requirements. Taking into account the above, the AC is satisfied that EY 
has continued to provide a high-quality and effective audit in its fourth 
year as auditor and maintained its independence and objectivity.
During 2019, there was no review of EY’s audits of Shell’s Consolidated 
Financial Statements by the Audit Quality Review (AQR) team of the FRC.
Following due consideration, the AC has recommended to the Board to 
propose at the 2020 AGM that EY be reappointed as the external auditor 
of the Company for the year ending December 31, 2020. There are no 
contractual obligations that restrict the AC’s ability to make such a 
recommendation.
As required under UK and US auditing standards, the AC received a letter 
from EY confirming its independence.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES
The AC maintains an independence policy in respect of the provision of 
services by the external auditor. The AC regularly reviews this policy for 
necessary changes in response to changes in related standards and 
regulatory requirements. Following the issuance of the Revised Ethical 
Standards by the FRC in December 2019, the AC updated its 
independence policy to reflect these new standards. 
This policy, designed to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, 
includes rules relating to the provision of audit services, audit-related 
services and other non-audit services, and stipulates which services 
require specific prior approval by the AC. 
The policy also defines prohibited services that are not to be provided by 
the auditor as these represent a risk to external auditor independence. 
Prohibited services are any that relate to management decision-taking or 
any other service that would compromise auditor independence or the 
perception thereof. These prohibited services include all services listed 
as prohibited in the UK and US auditor independence rules.
For certain services that are not prohibited, because of the knowledge 
and experience of the external auditor and/or for reasons of 
confidentiality, it can be more efficient or prudent to engage the external 
auditor rather than another party. This is particularly the case in relation to 
audit-related assurance services that are closely connected to the audit 
function where the external auditor has the benefit of knowledge gained 
from work already performed as part of the audit. 
Under the policy, the AC will only approve services to be carried out by 
the external auditor or its affiliates where such services do not present a 
conflict of interest risk in fact or in appearance. The AC reviews quarterly 
reports from management on the audit and non-audit services reported in 
accordance with the policy or for which specific prior approval from the 
AC is being sought. To the extent that the fee value of an additional audit 
service contract does not individually exceed $50,000 (as from March 
15, 2020: $100,000), then no prior approval of the AC is required. All 
non-audit services where the fee for an individual contract exceeds 
$100,000, including audit-related services, require individual prior 
approval by the AC. In each case where the audit or non-audit service 
contract does not exceed the relevant threshold, the matter is 
subsequently reported at the next quarterly AC meeting. 
The scope of the non-audit services contracted with the external auditor 
in 2019 consisted mainly of interim reviews and other audit-related 
assurance services. The associated compensation for these audit-related 
services and other non-audit services amounted to 4% and 1%, 
respectively, of the external auditor’s audit and audit-related 
remuneration.
FEES
Note 28 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on page 238 
provides details of the auditor’s remuneration.
AC EVALUATION
The AC undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance and 
effectiveness. Consistent with the Board’s annual performance evaluation 
for 2019, the AC’s performance evaluation was facilitated by Independent 
Board Evaluation, an independent consulting firm. Each AC member was 
interviewed for their views covering topics relating to: the management of 
the AC in areas such as the annual cycle of work, agenda for meetings, 
and time and input in meetings; rating the quality of the information 
provided to the AC; the effectiveness of the AC’s oversight in areas such 
as the work of internal and external audit, the Group’s financial reporting, 
the system of internal controls and the risk management policies and 
practices; rating the AC’s performance in reviewing and assessing 
significant accounting and reporting issues; and generally how to improve 
the AC’s performance. When assessing progress against 2018, the AC 
concluded that 2019 priorities identified in the 2018 evaluation (including 
a visit to the finance operations in Chennai and discussions related to the 
first-year application of IFRS 16, regulatory developments, information risk 
management and the Net Carbon Footprint control framework) had all 
been undertaken by the AC in 2019. The AC discussed the outcome of 
this review as part of its annual evaluation. The AC concluded that its 
performance in 2019 had been effective and that it fulfilled its role in 
accordance with its Terms of Reference. 
In preparing its workplan for 2020 the AC has agreed the following focus 
areas in addition to the standing items: Trading and Supply, regulatory 
developments, decommissioning, integrated risk management, new 
business models and ventures, pensions and visits to Shell’s operations 
in Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and the finance operations 
centre in Krakow, Poland. 
Governance

135
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to present the 2019 Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
This includes my last letter as Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
(REMCO), our Annual Report on Remuneration and the proposed 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy for 2020 onwards.
It has been another busy year for the REMCO and we have appreciated 
the ongoing support and engagement of our shareholders as we finalised 
our proposals on a revised policy and navigated the requirements of the 
new UK Corporate Governance Code. 
In preparing the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 
December 31, 2018, the REMCO paid particular attention to enhancing 
disclosures and explaining its decision making, and it was pleased 
with the level of support (89.93%) received in favour. 
The outstanding performance, which underpinned the 2018 pay 
outcomes, the strong link between pay and performance and the 
REMCO’s prudence in managing pay outcomes over the long term was 
recognised by many shareholders. Notwithstanding this, a number of 
shareholders raised concerns over the absolute quantum of the CEO’s 
2018 remuneration. The REMCO has reflected long and hard on this and 
quantum has been a matter of careful consideration both in our decisions 
for the 2019 remuneration outcome as well as in our proposals for the 
2020 policy update, as I hope you will appreciate. 
So let me now turn to 2019 performance and the remuneration outcomes.
2019 PERFORMANCE AND REMUNERATION OUTCOMES
Annual Bonus 
During 2019 the ambition to thrive in the energy transition was 
progressed; the optimisation and marketing capabilities of the Integrated 
Gas and Downstream businesses helped deliver above-plan earnings, 
and project delivery was strong, reflecting the focus on capital discipline. 
However, assessed against the 2019 scorecard targets, a poor 
outcome on safety, a difficult macroeconomic environment and areas 
of operational challenge meant overall performance was below target.
It is worth reiterating that the REMCO has long had a policy of not 
adjusting remuneration measures to take into account changes in oil 
and gas prices and currency fluctuations. This means Senior Management 
also experience the ups and downs of the macroeconomic environment 
impacting our business and shareholders. In our engagements with our 
largest shareholders, many have appreciated the transparency this brings.
Financial performance 
Cashflow from operations was below the minimum threshold set for 
2019. This was driven by challenging macroeconomic conditions, with 
lower than anticipated oil and gas prices and very difficult market 
conditions for Shell’s Refining and Chemicals businesses. This was 
exacerbated by operational issues in parts of the Upstream and 
Integrated Gas businesses. 
Operational performance
 ■ Production volumes were below target by 2.53%. This was driven by 
a number of operational issues and delays bringing projects on-stream; 
 ■ LNG liquefaction volumes were below target by 2.20%, mainly due to 
delayed project start-ups and slower ramp-ups;
GERARD KLEISTERLEE 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
2019 outcomes 
Annual bonus: below-target award, with downward discretion 
applied for fatalities. 
LTIP: above-target vesting, based on long-term performance.
2020 policy features
Alignment to strategy: formalisation of energy transition 
LTIP condition.
Quantum: reduce CEO LTIP grant and increased focus on the 
REMCO’s use of discretion to manage Single Figure outcomes.
Simplification: removed individual performance factor and 
reduced CEO target bonus.
“ L istening to shareholders has 
been critical for the REMCO 
in shaping our decisions for 
2019 and the proposed 2020 
remuneration policy”
THIS REPORT 
This Directors’ Remuneration Report for 2019 has been prepared in 
accordance with relevant UK corporate governance and legal 
requirements, in particular Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 
(as amended). The Board has approved this report.
This report consists of two further sections: 
 ■ the Annual Report on Remuneration (describing 2019 remuneration as 
well as the planned implementation of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
in 2020) which will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2020 AGM; and
 ■ the Directors’ Remuneration Policy which will be subject to a binding 
shareholder vote at the 2020 AGM.
Governance

136
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
LTIP Vesting
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
 ■ The combined Refinery and Chemicals Availability outcome was above 
target by 0.44%, with higher downtime from unplanned events being 
more than compensated by lower downtime from planned events; and 
 ■ Combined Project Delivery, which provides an indication of our ability 
to deliver projects within budget and schedule, was strong, with 
90% of projects on-time and with aggregated costs below budget, 
reflecting the focus on capital discipline and project execution.
Sustainable Development 
Shell has made significant progress on safety performance over a long 
period of time. This is reflected on the scorecard where the targets have 
been made more challenging over time, and although the total recordable 
case frequency (TRCF) threshold was not met in 2019, the outcome 
remains the joint second best on Shell’s record, following the record low in 
2017 . However, the seven fatalities that occurred under Shell’s operational 
control in 2019 are not acceptable and further work on safety is needed. 
Performance on the other sustainability metrics was mixed. The process 
safety measure in 2019 was below target. Greenhouse gas emissions 
were at target for Upstream and Integrated Gas, and Refining. Chemicals 
emissions were below target due to a strike at Moerdijk and reliability 
issues at Deer Park.
Summary of Scorecard Performance
The mathematical outcome of the annual bonus scorecard was 
0.48 and the REMCO determined to reduce the outcome to 0.43 for 
Senior Management. This downward discretion was applied as a result 
of the increased number of fatalities in 2019. Safety is, and must remain, 
Shell’s number one priority. This reduction is based on the REMCO’s 
judgment and was not a formulaic adjustment. 
Reflecting the collective responsibility of senior executives in the safe 
operation of Shell, internally it was decided to apply the downward 
discretion to around 150 senior leaders.
This brings the ten-year average scorecard outcome to 1.17 . The detailed 
bonus scorecard breakdown and further commentary on performance 
are on page 142.
Annual Bonus Outcomes
For 2019, to simplify the annual bonus structure following shareholder 
feedback, the individual performance multiplier was removed from the 
bonus calculation formula for the Executive Directors. Annual bonuses 
are determined based solely on business performance. The CEO’s 
target bonus was also reduced from 150% to 125%. 
Based on the scorecard outcome of 0.43, the annual bonus outcome 
for the CEO was €800,000 and for the CFO was €500,000. This 
represents 41% of target (21% of maximum) and is a 73% reduction 
from 2018 for the CEO and a 68% reduction for the CFO. 
The annual bonus for the Executive Directors is paid 50% in cash and 50% 
in shares subject to a three-year holding period, which applies beyond an 
Executive Director’s tenure.
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP) 
While performance in 2019 assessed against our annual bonus scorecard 
metrics was below target, on the LTIP we continue to see the impact of the 
longer-term efforts to transform Shell to deliver increased shareholder 
value and better performance against the comparator companies.
Total Shareholder Return 2017 – 2019
Royal Dutch Shell Other oil majors (BP, Chevron, ExxonMobil and Total)
-20%
2017 2018 2019
-10%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
Shell made $61 billion of distributions to shareholders over the 
performance period, including dividend payments and share buybacks. 
Shell was second on total shareholder return (TSR), by less than 0.4%, 
during a period which has recently been challenging for the sector. 
Relative CFFO growth was third in the comparator group. Shell generated 
$131 billion over the period, ranking first in absolute terms. ROACE of 5.6% 
was also improved, with growth ranking first in the comparator group, 
reflecting our work to high-grade and reshape the portfolio [A]. 
On free cash flow (FCF), Shell exceeded the three-year cumulative 
target of $85 billion with total FCF over the period of $93.4 billion.
These outcomes continue to reflect the success of Shell’s strategy since 
2016 and the progress made in building a world-class investment case. 
Over the 2017-2019 performance period, Shell has delivered on 
commitments to strengthen the financial framework; cancelling the 
Scrip Dividend Programme and starting the $25 billion share buyback 
programme ($14.75 billion completed as at January 22, 2020). 
After taking account of the outcome of the performance metrics, as well as 
considering the wider performance of Shell over the performance period, 
the final vesting outcome of the 2017 LTIP award was approved at 147%. 
This brings the ten-year average vesting outcome to 104%. This is broadly 
aligned with our target grant, although there have been a number of high 
and low-vesting outcomes over the past 10 years. The REMCO believes 
this illustrates the fundamental effectiveness of the LTIP and the close 
alignment between pay and performance the current LTIP structure 
has provided over a long period of time.
'17-'19'16-'18'15-'17'14-'16'13-'15'12-'14'11-'13'10-'12'09-'11'08-'10
0
200
150
100
50
 TSR 
 EPS/FCF 
 CFFO 
 Production/ROACE
Ta
rget  
10 year average:
   
104% of target
 
[A] F or comparability purposes we calculate ROACE for LTIP purposes on disclosed net income 
which is not adjusted for the after-tax interest expense, it therefore differs from disclosed ROACE.
Governance

137
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
CEO Single Figure Outcomes 
The REMCO considered the quantum of the Single Figure outcome 
(€9,963,670 for the CEO) and in finalising their remuneration decisions 
for 2019, considered a range of factors, further details of which are 
provided on page 144. These included both Shell’s and personal 
performance in 2019, in the period 2017-2019 and the internal relativity 
of remuneration compared to the variable pay outcomes for employees.
The REMCO noted that it had already reduced the CEO’s target bonus 
for 2019 from 150% to 125% and the quantum of award was further 
adjusted downwards on a discretionary basis given the seven fatalities 
in the year. It recognised the strong competitive results from 2017-2019, 
but also reflected on the challenging 2019 performance, partly driven 
by difficult macroeconomic conditions, related to lower cash flow, 
operational challenges and safety. The REMCO also noted the reductions 
in annual bonus and LTIP outcomes and that the CEO’s overall 
remuneration was 51% lower than in 2018, and was satisfied that the 
Single Figure represented an appropriate and competitive level of 
remuneration within the bounds of the shareholder-approved policy. 
CEO’s single figure outcomes over last 10 years
0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
30,000(€ thousand)
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
 B ase Salary and benefits  
 Bonus 
 Lo ng-term incentive plan  
 P ension and tax equalisation
PAY IN A WIDER CONTEXT
The REMCO believes that there should be alignment between pay 
structures for the Executive Directors and employees. This is important, 
both to reinforce a common commitment to Shell’s strategic goals and to 
give employees the opportunity to share in Shell’s success. The majority 
of Shell’s employees share the same scorecard as the Executive Directors. 
In addition, around 16,500 of Shell’s employees are granted performance 
share awards on terms that are broadly similar to the conditions that also 
apply to the Executive Directors through the LTIP. 
The ratio of the CEO’s pay to the median UK worker is 87 . The global 
pay ratio, calculated by comparing the CEO single figure to the average 
employee headcount cost, is 75. These numbers have significantly 
decreased from 2018, where the average pay ratio was 143 compared 
to the UK median ratio and 149 in comparison to the global employee 
ratio. The principal reasons for the changes are the decrease in the CEO’s 
single figure from 2018, balanced by the reduction in the variable pay 
outcomes for all employees, and the acquisition of First Utility 
(now Shell Energy Retail). 
The REMCO noted that even with the exceptional CEO pay outcome 
in 2018 based on strong company performance, our pay ratio was 
consistent with the pay ratios seen in other major FTSE 30 companies. 
The REMCO is cautious about drawing any direct conclusions from the 
comparison of ratios, given the differences in industry and employee 
profile between companies.
CEO: Pay ratio
2019 CEO single total figure against actual average global employee costs
[A] B ased on CEO ‘minimum’ pay scenario as disclosed on page 160 compared to the 
average global employee cost in 2019.
[B]
 B
ased on the 2018 CEO single total figure compared to the average global employee 
cost in 2018.
[C]
 B
ased on the 2019 CEO single total figure compared to the average global employee 
cost in 2019.
[D]
 B
ased on CEO ‘maximum’ pay scenario (excluding the 50% share price appreciation) 
as disclosed on page 160 compared to the average global employee cost in 2019. 
1 243
Lower 
quartile
Median
of FTSE 30
1  S hell minimum pay ratio [A]
2  S hell 2018 global pay ratio [B]
3  S hell 2019 global pay ratio [C]
4  S hell maximum pay ratio [D]
Shell’s gender pay gap for 2019, published in accordance with the reporting 
required under the UK Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations, increased slightly from 18.6% to 18.7%. This increase is primarily 
due to the effect of including employees from Shell’s acquisition of First Utility 
in the calculation for the first time. On a like-for-like basis, it would have been 
15.1%, an improvement of 3.5 percentage points. Shell’s goal is to ensure the 
equal participation of women and men in all areas of work, at all levels and 
locations ensuring equal access to the same recognition, reward and career 
progression opportunities. As 2019 illustrates, these changes will be 
influenced by changes in our business and may be non-linear. However, 
the REMCO has confidence in the policies Shell has to increase the 
representation of women at all levels in the organisation. 
2020 REMUNERATION POLICY 
I would now like to turn to the remuneration policy that will be voted 
on at the 2020 AGM. 
The REMCO has spent time considering the alignment of remuneration 
policies to Shell’s strategic goals, listening to shareholder views, gathering 
input on executive pay market developments, and reflecting on wider 
societal trends in developing the revised policy. I have had the opportunity 
to meet with many shareholders personally during this process and want 
to thank them for expressing their point of view. The various perspectives 
they have provided have helped shape a number of key decisions. 
Notably, this feedback has been critical in shaping our development 
of the Energy Transition metric and our intended response to managing 
the issue of quantum. 
In our policy deliberations, we have been guided by three objectives: 
Strategy should be set first, and then the remuneration policies designed 
to support the achievement of those strategic goals. This is our overriding 
imperative: the decisions we make as the REMCO must be tightly and 
inextricably linked to Shell’s strategy. 
Governance

138
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Second, we must maintain a package that is externally competitive 
and ensures the business can attract and retain the management talent 
capable of ensuring the ongoing success of Shell and delivering a high 
level of returns for shareholders while navigating through the complexity 
of the energy transition. 
Finally, there must be internal proportionality. The policies we enact for the 
Executive Directors should be, as far as possible, consistent and aligned 
with the approach to managing remuneration across the Shell Group. 
The REMCO believes the existing structures remain robust and consistent 
with these objectives. The annual bonus and the LTIP are closely aligned 
with Shell’s strategy: incentivising outperformance of our closest 
competitors on a number of key financial metrics; the delivery of the annual 
operational business plan; and progressing the ambition to thrive in the 
energy transition. While variable pay outcomes have fluctuated over time, 
the 10-year average vesting outcomes are close to target, demonstrating 
the effectiveness of these structures in delivering pay for performance over 
the long term. In discussions with shareholders there was a clear preference 
for maintaining a strong and direct link between reward and performance. 
Structures which potentially reduced this link, such as restricted shares, 
received limited support from shareholders in consultation.
Quantum
There is good support for target reward levels, but some shareholders 
raised concerns regarding pay quantum at the extremes of performance 
and this has been a key issue for the REMCO when considering the 2020 
policy. In 2019, we reviewed a range of alternative reward structures that 
might moderate high pay outcomes while keeping target pay competitive. 
Following extensive consultation with shareholders, we concluded that 
changing reward design is not the best way to address quantum if it 
means making compromises on the alignment between pay and 
performance in the delivery of strategy. This also allows for alignment 
between reward structures for Executive Directors and employees. The 
REMCO also considered whether a cap on remuneration levels was 
appropriate. The REMCO believes it is important to maintain flexibility in 
order to respond to changing business requirements and/or governance 
developments if required. The introduction of an arbitrarily defined cap 
may adversely affect that flexibility and, given the good alignment 
between pay and performance, would be an unnecessary policy feature. 
Also some shareholders are of the view that strong performance should be 
rewarded with strong variable pay outcomes. Accordingly, we have 
sought ways to manage quantum outcomes within the existing tried and 
tested performance framework. 
Proposals
Under the proposed policy, we are:
 ■ reducing the CEO’s target bonus from 150% to 125% (a change 
already implemented in 2019);
 ■ reducing the maximum LTIP opportunity from 800% of base salary 
to 600%. In doing so we will reduce the 2020 target LTIP grant 
level for the CEO from 340% to 300%; and
 ■ introducing a greater emphasis on discretionary management of 
remuneration outcomes for the CEO. From now on the REMCO will, 
based on the formulaic Single Figure outcome, undertake a further and 
final review of the CEO’s and company’s overall performance and be 
prepared to adjust the Single Figure in order to ensure that the highest 
variable pay outcomes are only achieved for the highest quality of 
performance across all significant areas of activity. It is not expected 
that this discretion would be applied upwards, and any discretion 
would be disclosed and explained to shareholders. 
As you know, in a first for our industry and following extensive 
collaboration with shareholders, we incorporated an energy transition 
measure to our LTIP from 2019, again adopting early a change originally 
intended for the 2020 policy. That condition continues to feature in 
the policy, and it remains the REMCO’s intent to increase its weighting 
over time.
The REMCO reflected carefully on the matter of pensions. It is already 
a long-standing remuneration policy that pensions for Shell’s Executive 
Directors are aligned with those of employees in their home country and 
we are proposing to continue this policy. 
The CEO participates in the mainstream Shell Netherlands pension 
arrangements on the same terms as all other members. It is a feature of 
Netherlands pension schemes that the contribution rate increases with 
age and this is a requirement of Dutch pension legislation. As the CEO is 
near the top of the ladder based on age, his contribution rate is 27%. The 
REMCO is aware that this may appear high by UK standards of pension 
contribution. However, this is the standard contribution rate applicable 
to all employees of his age in this plan, and we believe that this is 
aligned with the spirt of recent developments in corporate governance 
regarding pension provision. Jessica Uhl also participates in the pension 
arrangements applicable to employees in her home country (USA). The 
only difference in her arrangements in comparison to other employees 
is that her bonus is non-pensionable. This is in accordance with UK 
corporate governance best practice. Further information on pensions 
is provided on page 145.
We are proposing a number of other changes to simplify the policy 
and to ensure it remains aligned with shareholder interests and 
developing corporate governance best practice. These changes 
include increasing the CFO’s shareholding requirement, introducing 
a post-employment shareholding requirement and extending our 
malus and clawback provisions.
A summary of the changes from the existing policy are set out on 
page 145. Having consulted with shareholders on these changes 
through the course of the last two years, I am confident of your support.
LOOKING AHEAD
The 2020 AGM will be my last as the REMCO Chairman, as I will be 
stepping down from the RDS Board following the meeting. It has been 
a privilege to chair the REMCO over a period which has seen a great 
deal of change, both for Shell and in the executive remuneration 
landscape. I believe that the proposed 2020 remuneration policy 
will provide strong support in achieving Shell’s strategic ambitions 
and I wish my successor, Neil Carson, every success for the future. 
GERARD KLEISTERLEE 
Chair of the REMCO 
March 11, 2020
Governance

139
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out
 
 ■ The REMCO’s responsibilities and activities, page 139; 
 ■ Remuneration at a glance, page 140;
 ■ Directors’ remuneration for 2019, page 141; and
 ■ the statement of the planned implementation of policy 
in 2020, page 152 . 
The base currency in this Annual Report on Remuneration is the euro, as 
this is the currency of the base salary of the Executive Directors. Where 
amounts are shown in other currencies, an average exchange rate for the 
relevant year is used, unless a specific date is stated, in which case the 
average exchange rate for the specific date is used. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
Biographies are given on pages 104-110; and REMCO meeting 
attendance is set out below: 
Committee Member Member since 
Maximum 
possible 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
% of
meetings 
attended
Mr. Gerard Kleisterlee 
(Chair) 21 May 2014 5 5 100%
Mr. Neil Carson [A] 01 June 2019 3 2 67%
Mrs. Catherine Hughes 26 July 2017 5 5 100%
Sir Nigel Sheinwald 24 May 2017 5 5 100%
Mr. Gerrit Zalm 21 May 2014 5 5 100%
[A] N eil Carson was unable to attend the meeting in October due to an immovable 
commitment, which was scheduled prior to his appointment to the Shell Board.
The REMCO’s key responsibilities include determining: 
Senior Management
Executive 
Directors
Executive 
Committee
Company 
Secretary
Performance Framework
Remuneration policy
Actual remuneration and benefits
Annual Bonus and Long-Term Incentive 
Measures and Targets
In addition, the REMCO has the responsibility for determining the Chair 
of the Board’s remuneration. The REMCO monitors the level and structure 
of remuneration for senior executives below Senior Management and 
makes recommendations if appropriate to ensure consistency and 
alignment with Shell’s remuneration objectives. The REMCO reviews 
workforce remuneration and related policies and the alignment of 
incentives and rewards with culture, taking these into account when 
setting the policy for Executive Director remuneration.
In exercising its responsibilities, the REMCO takes into account a variety 
of stakeholder considerations. 
The REMCO operates within its Terms of Reference, which are reviewed 
annually. They were last updated on March 13, 2019 and are available 
at www.shell.com.
Advice from within Shell was provided by: 
 ■ Ben van Beurden, CEO; 
 ■ Ronan Cassidy, Chief Human Resources and Corporate Officer 
and Secretary to the REMCO; and 
 ■ Stephanie Boyde, Executive Vice President Remuneration and 
HR Operations. 
The Chair of the Board was consulted on remuneration proposals affecting 
the CEO, and the CEO was consulted on proposals relating to the CFO 
and Senior Management. 
During 2019, the REMCO met five times and its activities included:
 ■ setting annual bonus and long-term incentive plan performance 
measures and targets, including considering the energy transition 
in the context of long-term remuneration;
 ■ deciding on 2018 annual bonus outcomes, 2019 base salaries, 2019 
target bonuses and 2019 LTIP awards for Senior Management;
 ■ determining vesting of the 2016 LTIP award for Senior Management;
 ■ approving the 2018 Directors’ Remuneration Report; 
 ■ carefully deliberating on quantum for the CEO;
 ■ preparing for shareholder consultation; 
 ■ developing the Directors’ Remuneration Policy in preparation 
for the 2020 AGM vote; and
 ■ monitoring external developments and assessing their impact 
on Shell’s Remuneration Policy. 
In 2019, PWC provided an update to advice first provided in 2018 
regarding market practice in relation to remuneration developments 
and Shell’s remuneration structures. PWC were appointed by the REMCO 
to provide this advice on the basis of their credentials for assessing the risk 
profile of remuneration policies and their knowledge of shareholder 
expectations and international market practice in the oil industry and long-
term businesses. PWC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and operates under the group’s Code of Conduct when providing 
advice. PWC provides other consultancy and accountancy services to 
Shell. However, the REMCO is satisfied that the advice provided on 
executive remuneration matters was objective and independent. The total 
fees paid to PWC in relation to this advice were £10,000 (excluding VAT).
PRINCIPLES
The principles that underpin the REMCO’s approach to executive 
remuneration are set out on page 155.
The REMCO considered the provisions of the new UK Corporate 
Governance code, and has sought to reflect the principles of clarity, 
simplicity, risk management, predictability, proportionality and alignment 
to culture in deciding 2019 pay outcomes and developing 2020 policy. 
Shell has a consistent global reward and performance philosophy that sets 
clear expectations of employees. Through the annual bonus scorecard 
and the LTIP, remuneration is clearly aligned to Shell’s operating plan and 
strategic ambitions and the same measures apply to Senior Management 
and to a significantly broader employee base. This provides alignment 
throughout the organisation to Shell’s culture and strategy. The annual 
operating plan translates into targets on the annual bonus scorecard and 
a quarterly update on performance against scorecard targets is provided 
to employees. Similarly the LTIP is largely based on outperforming the 
competition, and regular updates on Shell’s performance against 
competitors is provided to employees. In reviewing the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy, the REMCO sought to make changes that help to 
simplify remuneration structures (for example, removing the individual 
performance factor for Executive Directors) and giving more transparent 
outcomes (for example, removing the bonus asymmetry from the CEO’s 
remuneration structure). To assist in the mitigation of reputational risk and 
ensure proportionality, the powers of the REMCO to apply malus and 
clawback and make discretionary adjustments to variable pay outcomes 
have been expanded, with the intention that the REMCO will use 
discretion to ensure the highest pay outcomes are delivered only 
for outstanding performance.
Governance

REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE
140
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued
FIXED PAY AND SHAREHOLDING
Base salary
€1,557,000
Ben van Beurden (CEO)
€1,015,000
Jessica Uhl (CFO)
Pension
Executive directors participate in the same home 
country pension arrangements as other employees
Benefits
Typically include car allowance, transport 
between home and office, and medical insurance
Shareholding
Target levels, % of base salary at 31 December 2019
700%
CEO
400%
CFO
Actual levels, % of base salary at 31 December 2019
1,136%
CEO
265%
CFO
ANNUAL BONUS
2019 annual bonus
€800,000
CEO (73% reduction 
from 2018)
€500,000
CFO (68% reduction 
from 2018)
2019 bonus scorecard outcome
Mathematical outcome
0.48
Given safety outcomes in 2019, including 
seven fatalities, this was reduced to: 
0.43
No individual performance factor used in 
bonus calculation
Bonus Delivery
50%
delivered 
in cash
50%
delivered 
in shares
Shares are subject to a 3-year holding period which 
extends beyond an Executive Directors’ tenure
FIXED PAY AND SHAREHOLDING
Base salary
€1,588,000
CEO
 2%
€1,035,000
CFO
 2%
Pension
No change from 2019
Benefits
No change from 2019
Shareholding
Target levels, % of base salary 2020
700%
CEO
 500%
CFO (increased 
from 400%)
Actual levels, % of base salary 5 March 2020
1,090%
CEO
467%
CFO
ANNUAL BONUS
Target % of base salary
Target
125%
CEO
120%
CFO
Maximum
250%
CEO
240%
CFO
Scorecard architecture
50%
30%
20%
a
b
c
a   O perational Excellence  
(Project delivery 12.5%, Production 12.5%, 
LNG liquefaction volumes 12.5%, 
OP/CH availability 12.5%)
b   O perational Cash flow
c   S ustainable Development  
(GHG 10%, TRCF 5%, 
Tier 1 & 2 Process Safety 5%)
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
Target awards % of base salary
Target
 300%
CEO (reduced from 
340% in 2019)
270%
CFO
Maximum
 600%
CEO (reduced from 
680% in 2019)
540%
CFO
Performance conditions
22.5%
22.5%
22.5%
22.5%
10%
a
b
c
d
e
a   TS R
b   R OACE
c   C ash from operating activities
d   FC F
e   E nergy transition (new from 2019)
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
2017 – 2019 LTIP vesting outcome
€7,191,223
CEO (53% reduction 
from 2018)
$4,357,430
CFO (115% increase 
from 2018)
Vesting outcome
Measures Outcome Vesting
TSR  1   2   3   4   5 38%
CFFO  1   2   3   4   5 20%
ROACE 
growth  1   2   3   4   5 50%
FCF 39%
147%
(out of a 200% maximum)
Shares are subject to a 3-year holding period which 
extends beyond an Executive Directors’ tenure
2019
2020
Governance

141
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION FOR 2019 
 
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-executive Directors (audited)
€ thousand
Fees Taxable benefits[A] Total
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Neil Carson [B] 99 N/A – N/A 99 N/A
Ann Godbehere [C] 178 97 – – 178 97
Euleen Goh 201 220 – – 201 220
Charles O. Holliday [D] 850 850 71 75 921 925
Catherine J. Hughes 200 199 – 7 200 206
Gerard Kleisterlee 242 216 – 7 242 223
Roberto Setubal 190 190 2 – 192 190
Sir Nigel Sheinwald 187 180 – 6 187 186
Linda G. Stuntz 189 197 8 13 197 210
Gerrit Zalm 177 177 – – 177 177
[A] U K regulations require the inclusion of benefits where these would be taxable in the UK, on the assumption that Directors are tax residents in the UK. On this premise, the taxable benefits include 
the cost of Non-executive Director’s occasional business-required partner travel. Shell also pays for travel between home and the head office in The Hague, where Board and committee meetings 
are typically held, as well as related hotel and subsistence costs. For consistency, these business expenses are not reported as taxable benefits as for most Non-executive Directors this is 
international travel and hence would not be taxable in the UK. 
[B]
 A
ppointed as a Director with effect from June 1, 2019.
[C]
 A
ppointed as Director with effect from May 23, 2018
[D]
 I
ncluding the use of a Shell provided apartment whilst in the Hague (2019: €70,624; 2018: €70,015)
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors (audited)
€ thousand
Ben van Beurden Jessica Uhl
2019 2018 2019 2018
Salaries [A] 1,557 1,527 1,015 995
Taxable benefits [B] 20 32 51 49
Total fixed remuneration 1,577 1,559 1,066 1,044
Annual bonus [C] 800 3,000 500 1,550
LTIP [D] 7,191 15,209 3,903 1,783
Total variable remuneration 7,9 91 18,209 4,403 3,333
Total direct remuneration 9,568 19,768 5,469 4,376
Pension [E] 395 369 261 196
Tax equalisation [F] – 275 289
Total remuneration including pension and tax equalisation 9,963 20,138 6,005 4,862
in dollars 11,155 23,790 6,724 5,74 4
in sterling 8,746 17,817 5,271 4,302
[A] A s disclosed in the 2018 Directors’ Remuneration Report, the REMCO set Ben van Beurden’s base salary for 2019 at €1,557 ,000 (+2.0% compared with 2018) effective from January 1, 2019, 
and Jessica Uhl’s base salary at €1,015,000 (+2.0% compared with 2018) effective from January 1, 2019.
[B]
 E
xecutive Directors received car allowances, transport between home and office, occasional business-required partner travel, as well as employer contributions to life and medical insurance plans. 
[C]
 T
he full value of the bonus, comprising both the 50% delivered in cash and 50% bonus delivered in shares. For 2019, the market price of A shares on February 21, 2020 (€22.735), was used to 
determine the number of shares delivered, resulting in 9,521 A shares for Ben van Beurden and 5,951 A shares for Jessica Uhl. For 2018, 50% of the bonus was delivered in shares and the market 
price of A shares on February 21, 2019 (€27 .745), was used to determine the number of shares delivered, resulting in 28,045 A shares for Ben van Beurden and 14,490 A shares for Jessica Uhl. 
[D]
 R
emuneration for performance periods of more than one year, comprising the value of released LTIP awards. The amounts reported for 2019 relate to the 2017 LTIP award, which vested on March 
4, 2020, at the market price of €19.986 and $45.21 for A shares and A ADSs respectively. The value in respect of the LTIP is calculated as the product of: the number of shares of the original award 
multiplied by the vesting percentage; plus accrued dividend shares; and the market price of A shares or A ADSs at the vesting date. The market price of A ADSs is converted into euros using the 
exchange rate on the respective date. Ben van Beurden also received a release of 57 ,980 RDS A shares under the 2017 Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) on March 4, 2020. The original deferred bonus 
share awards, which are those represented by the deferred bonus and dividend shares accrued on these shares are not considered as long-term remuneration as they relate to the 2016 short-term 
annual bonus value. Share price appreciation accounted for -€1,603,428 on the LTIP and -€317 ,962 on the DBP for Ben van Beurden and -$521,010 on the LTIP for Jessica Uhl.
[E]
 F
or Ben van Beurden, the amount reported for pension consists of a net pay defined contribution amount of €395,060. The amount to be reported for his defined benefit pension accrual is 
0 calculated in accordance with UK reporting requirements. For Jessica Uhl, the amount reported for pension consists of a defined contribution amount of €102,709 and a defined benefit pension 
accrual €158,012.
[F]
 I
ncludes tax equalisation of pension contributions to foreign pension plan(s), when they are taxable above a certain pensionable salary threshold or once a double tax treaty exemption ceases, 
under Dutch law. Tax equalisation is applied for the loss of pension relief for members of a foreign pension plan(s) in their host country.
Governance

142
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Notes to the single total figure of remuneration 
for executive directors table (audited) 
Annual bonus 
The Annual bonus operated in line with the policy as disclosed on 
page 156. 
Determination of the 2019 annual bonus 
The table below summarises the 2019 annual bonus scorecard measures 
including their weightings, targets and outcomes. The mathematical 
scorecard outcome for 2019 was 0.48. Please refer to pages 135-136 
for a commentary on the scorecard outcome.
After reviewing the mathematical scorecard outcome, and considering 
the context of wider company performance for the year, the REMCO 
exercised discretion to adjust the scorecard result downwards to 0.43. 
This downwards adjustment was to reflect the seven fatalities under 
Shell operational control during the year.
Accordingly, the REMCO determined a final bonus outcome of €800,000 
for the CEO which is 41% of target and 21% of maximum. This is a 73% 
reduction from 2018. The REMCO determined a final bonus outcome 
of €500,000 for the CFO which is 41% of target and 21% of maximum. 
This is a 68% reduction from 2018.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued
2019 annual bonus outcome (audited) [A][B] 
Measures
Weight 
(% of scorecard) Threshold Target set Outstanding
Result 
achieved Score (0-2)
Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion) 30% 44 50 56 42 0
Operational excellence 50% 0.72
Production (kboe/d) 12.5% 3,647 3,760 3,873 3,665 0.16
LNG liquefaction volumes (mtpa) 12.5% 35.3 36.4 37. 4 35.6 0.23
Refinery and chemical plant availability (%) 12.5% 88.4 90.4 92.4 90.8 1.20
Project delivery on schedule (%) 6.25% 60 80 100 90 1.50
Project delivery on budget (%) 6.25% 105 100 95 99 1.10
Sustainable development 20% 0.59 
Total recordable case frequency (injuries/million hours) 5% 0.9 0.7 0.5 0.9 –
Operational Tier 1 and 2 process safety events (number) 5% 145 115 85 130 0.50
Upstream and Integrated Gas GHG intensity (tonnes of CO2 
equivalent/tonne of hydrocarbon production available for sale) 4% 0.176 0.168 0.160 0.168 1.00
Refining GHG intensity (tonnes CO2 equivalent per Solomon’s 
Utilized Equivalent Distillation Capacity (UEDC™)) 4% 1.11 1.06 1.01 1.06 1.00
Chemicals GHG intensity (tonnes CO2 equivalent/tonne of 
petrochemicals production) 2% 1.10 1.00 0.90 1.04 0.60
100%
Mathematical scorecard outcome 0.48
Adjusted scorecard outcome 0.43
[A] T hese metrics measure the effectiveness with which we operate our assets and portfolio base, assessed against our operational business plan. Shell’s longer-term strategic ambitions are measured 
in the LTIP metrics. 
[B] Scorecard targets are based on Shell’s annual operating plan and increase or decrease year-on-year. In 2019, target refinery and chemical plant availability was lower and target GHG emission 
intensities higher than 2018, due to planned business activities, reflecting scheduled maintenance and expected market conditions, and portfolio developments. 
[C]
 I
n external disclosure, we may use an alternative performance measure, i.e. CFFO excluding Working Capital, to describe the cash flow generation from our operations without the effect of 
working capital changes.
2019 bonus outcome calculation
Ben van Beurden
Jessica Uhl
€1,557 ,000 (base salary)
x 125% = €1,946,250
Target bonus:
2019 scorecard
result 0.43
€1,015,000 (base salary)
x 120% = €1,218,000
Target bonus:
2019 scorecard
result 0.43
[A] Rounded downwards to the nearest €50,000, and half was delivered in shares subject to a three-year holding period which extends beyond the Executive Director’s tenure.
€800,000  [A]
(51% of base salary)
 73% reduction from 2018
€500,000  [A]
(49% of base salary)
 68% reduction from 2018
Governance

143
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
LTIP Vesting
In 2017 , Ben van Beurden was granted a conditional LTIP award of 340% 
(max 680%) of base salary and Jessica Uhl an award of 270% (max 
540%) excluding share price movement and dividends. 
In making the vesting decision, the REMCO considered Shell’s 
performance over the three-year vesting period. The REMCO noted the 
strong performance of Shell relative to both the other oil majors and the 
wider oil and gas sector in generating shareholder returns, in particular 
the $61 billion distributed to shareholders in the form of dividends and 
share buybacks. This strong relative performance led to a very close TSR 
outcome, with Shell ranking second by a difference of less than 0.4%. 
Cash performance was also strong with CFFO leading the comparator 
group on absolute CFFO generated, and FCF was well above the 
cumulative target set for the three-year performance cycle. ROACE has 
also improved, reflecting the focus on capital discipline. The REMCO also 
took account of the fact that Shell’s competitors are some of the strongest 
companies in the industry and achieving relative outperformance is 
challenging.
The REMCO also took account of share price at grant (€25.47 for the 
CEO and $51.74 for the CFO) and at vest when making the vesting 
decision. As the share price at grant was only 2% higher from the 
three-month average share price leading up to grant, the REMCO 
was comfortable that there were no notable windfall gains arising 
from the LTIP vesting.
Accordingly, the REMCO determined that the LTIP should vest without 
discretionary adjustment at 147%. This is illustrated opposite. 
The CEO’s and CFO’s vested awards are subject to a further three-year 
holding period which extends beyond executive director tenure.
2017 LTIP vesting outcome – performance metrics
  Shell   C omparator oil majors
Measures Target Outcome Vesting
Relative TSR 25% 1 2 3
4
5
38%
Relative ROACE 
growth
25% 1
2 3 4 5
50%
Relative cash flow 
from operating 
activities growth
25%
1
2 3
4 5
20%
Absolute FCF
 ■ Maximum $100bn
 ■ Target $85bn
 ■ Threshold $76bn
25%
27.6
39.4
26.4
2017 2018 2019
39%
Total 100% 147%
(out of a 200% maximum)
2017 LTIP vesting outcome
Ben van Beurden
Jessica Uhl
198,900 x 147% = 
292,383 RDS A Shares 
(€7 ,446,995) 
Vesting outcome:  [A]
67 ,430 RDS A Shares 
(€1,347 ,656)
Accrued dividends:  [C]
292,383 x -€5.484
(-€1,603,428)
Change in
share price:  [B]
Total LTIP Vesting: [C][D]
359,813 RDS A Shares 
( € 7, 1 9 1 , 2 2 3 )  
 53% reduction
 from 2018
54,277 x 147% =
79,787 RDS.A Shares 
($4,128,189)
Vesting outcome:  [A]
16,595 RDS.A ADS 
($750,251)
Accrued dividends:  [C]
79,787 x -$6.53 
(-$521,010)
Change in
share price:  [B]
Total LTIP Vesting: [C][D]
96,382 RDS.A ADS
( $ 4 , 3 5 7, 4 3 0 )
 115% increase
 from 2018 [E]
[A] Based on the share price at grant of €25.47 for Ben van Beurden and $51.74 for Jessica Uhl. 
[B] Calculated as the share price at vesting date minus the share price at the date of grant for Ben van Beurden €19.986 – €25.47 = -€5.484 and for Jessica Uhl: $45.21 – $51.74 = -$6.53
[C] Based on the share price at vesting date of €19.986 for Ben van Beurden and $45.21 for Jessica Uhl. 
[D] Vested shares are subject to a two year holding period.
[E] Jessica Uhl's LTIP awards which vested in 2018 was made prior to appointment as CFO and were lower in accordance with our principle of internally proportionate
 pay that increases with seniority. The awards which vested in respect of 2019 were the ﬁrst granted following promotion to CFO. 
Governance

144
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued
Overall pay outcome
In determining the final pay outcomes, the REMCO also considered the personal performance of the Executive Directors.
Personal performance 2017 – 2019 
Key Goals Ben van Beurden Jessica Uhl
Deliver a 
world-class 
investment case
Under the CEO’s leadership, Shell continues to transform, with a clear purpose and 
well-defined strategic intents that balance societal progress with performance, to 
deliver higher returns. Over the 2017 – 2019 performance period, financial 
performance was strong: CFFO was $131 billion, FCF was $93 billion, an all-cash 
dividend was paid, and the share buyback programme was started ($14.75 billion 
completed as at January 22, 2020). The $30 billion divestment programme was 
also completed (in 2018) and investments have been made in a disciplined manner.
In terms of broader company performance, the REMCO recognised the strategic 
clarity the CEO has provided around the purpose and direction of Shell. Shell has 
delivered on its commitments to shareholders to date and remains committed to its 
intent to achieve 2020 targets. Albeit this timeframe is less certain given prevailing 
weak macroeconomic conditions and challenging outlook.
The CFO demonstrated strong cost and capital discipline 
leadership. This was enabled by a consistent focus on the 
strategic management of Shell’s Financial Framework, which 
has been a key contribution to the health and success of 
Shell in the period under review. Key milestones included: the 
cancellation of the scrip dividend and start of the share buyback 
programme, sustained investment discipline, reduced costs and 
a strengthened balance sheet with AA equivalent credit metrics. 
The introduction of publication of a quarterly update enhances 
disclosures and increases transparency.
In terms of broader company performance, the REMCO 
recognised the strategic insight the CFO has provided in 
terms of effective capital allocation, portfolio and investment 
decisions that further Shell’s world-class investment case. 
Thrive in the 
energy transition
The CEO continued to lead Shell’s NCF ambition through driving internal plans and 
targets, integrating business and world-class investment decisions with thriving in the 
energy transition, and by preparing the organisation for changing investor and 
customer preferences as the transition unfolds. 
The CEO continues to lead the way in the energy transition debate externally, 
for example, through the first joint statement with institutional shareholders, 
encouraging other companies to adopt the NCF methodology, and shaping the 
debate on energy transition. He has been instrumental in galvanising coalitions 
to start action on sectoral decarbonisation. His personal role, for example in the 
Aviation Clean Skies Initiative, is recognised by both customers and external 
stakeholders. His interventions have helped in shifting the climate agenda towards 
the practical measures that will be needed for creating sustained demand for 
lower carbon products. Shell set and disclosed NCF reduction targets. The 
CEO extended this measure to the remuneration of 16,500 Shell employees 
through the Performance Share Plan (PSP).
The CFO further matured the internal management systems 
relating to carbon dioxide (CO
2) in portfolio, planning and 
resource allocation decisions. 
The CFO led the publication of the Shell Energy Transition 
Report, which is aligned with the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations and 
sets out how Shell plans to be resilient to expected changes 
in the energy system and how its strategy helps it to thrive 
as the world transitions to lower-carbon energy. 
Strengthen licence 
to operate
In terms of HSSE leadership, performance was mixed, which shows further 
improvement is required. The 2019 personal injury rate was flat to 2018, 
following the lowest ever injury rate on record in 2017 . The fatalities in Shell-
operated ventures in 2019 are unacceptable and provide a stark reminder of the 
need for an ongoing focus on safety. In 2018, there was a notable improvement 
in operational process safety, with a reduction in the number of both Tier 1 and 
Tier 2 events. This, however, deteriorated in 2019.
In 2019, Shell published the Industry Associations Climate Review, which assesses 
alignment with 19 industry associations on climate-related policy and decided not 
to renew Shell’s membership of one association as a result. 
The CFO maintained a strong financial disclosure, 
reporting and control framework. 
The CFO played a key role in Shell’s endorsement of 
the responsible tax principles set out by the non-profit 
organisation, The B Team. In 2019, Shell published its 
inaugural Tax Contribution Report marking an important 
step towards greater transparency around Shell’s 
approach to paying taxes to governments.
The REMCO considered the quantum of the Single Figure outcomes, and, 
noting that the CEO’s overall remuneration was 51% lower than in 2018, 
was satisfied that they represent a fair level of remuneration, taking into 
account the strong competitive performance from 2017 to 2019 and the 
significant bonus reduction in 2019 reflecting the number of fatalities 
and safety challenges as well as the lower cash flow and 
operational challenges.
In finalising its remuneration decisions for 2019, the REMCO considered 
a range of factors, including: 
 ■ Shell’s performance in 2019 and over the LTIP performance 
period 2017-2019;
 ■ potential risk adjustment considerations, including safety, ethics and 
compliance and feedback from the Audit and Safety, Environment 
and Sustainability Committees;
 ■ the final scorecard outcome including the downwards discretion 
applied to the final vesting outcome;
 ■ the final LTIP vesting outcome;
 ■ the internal relativity of remuneration compared to the variable 
pay outcomes for the general workforce based on the group 
scorecard and Performance Share Plan; and 
 ■ the personal performance of the executive directors.
After reflecting on the above factors, the REMCO was satisfied that 
the remuneration policies had operated as intended.
Governance

145
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Pension 
Ben van Beurden’s pension arrangements comprise a defined benefit 
plan with a maximum pensionable salary of €96,729; and a net pay 
defined contribution pension plan with a 2019 employer contribution 
of 27% of salary in excess of €96,729. He has the option to take cash 
as an alternative to pension contributions (in either case subject to 
income tax) and elected to take his benefit in the form of contributions 
throughout 2019.
The employer contribution levels are in line with those applicable to other 
Netherlands-based employees. Under the Dutch pension regulations 
applicable to the pension arrangement in which he participates, the 
contribution rate increases with age and is shown below. 
At December 31, 2019 the average contribution rate for NL employees 
who participate in the net pay defined contribution pension arrangement 
on the same terms as Ben van Beurden was 22%. For reference, in the UK, 
the average employer contribution rate to the Shell UK defined 
contribution plan is 20%. 
Scheme interests awarded in 2019
Scheme interests awarded to Executive Directors in 2019 (audited)
Scheme interest type
Type of interest 
awarded
End of 
performance 
period Target award [A]
Potential amount vesting
Minimum 
performance 
(% of shares 
awarded) [B]
Maximum performance 
(% of shares of the 
target award) [A]
LTIP Performance 
shares
December 
31, 2021
Ben van Beurden: 194,625 A shares, 
equivalent to 3.4 x base salary or 
€5,293,800. Jessica Uhl: 49,927 
A ADS shares, equivalent to 2.7 
x base salary or €2,740,500.
0% Maximum number of shares 
vesting is 200% of the shares 
awarded, before dividends.
[A] T he award for Ben van Beurden was based on the closing market price on February 1, 2019, for A shares of €27 .20. The award for Jessica Uhl was based on the closing market price on 
February 1, 2019, for A ADSs of $62.84.
[B]
 M
inimum performance relates to the lowest level of achievement, for which no reward is given.
Shell Netherlands Pension Stichting Net pay 
defined contribution ladder
Jessica Uhl is a member of the Shell US retirement benefit arrangements, 
which include the Shell Pension Plan (a defined benefit plan), and a 
defined contribution plan where she receives an employer contribution of 
10% of salary. This is the same as the average employer contribution rate 
for US employees at December 31, 2019, which was also 10%. As for all 
other pre-2013 members of the Shell Pension Plan, she has an annual 
choice of two accrual formulas with different forms of benefits, one in the 
form of a lifetime annuity and the other allowing for a lump-sum payment. 
She elected to accrue benefits for 2019 under the former. Approximately 
10,000 out of 17 ,000 Shell US employees have the option of choosing 
between the two formulas. These arrangements are the same for all 
employees who joined Shell US at the same time as Jessica Uhl. The 
difference in pension provision for Jessica Uhl, compared to employees 
who joined pre-2013, is that her bonus is not pensionable as an Executive 
Director while for other relevant US employees the bonus is pensionable. 
She also has a deferred Dutch defined benefit pension plan, as a result 
of a prior Shell assignment on local Dutch terms and conditions.
The REMCO believe these arrangements are aligned with the recent 
corporate governance developments in the UK which emphasise 
Executive Directors’ pension arrangements being the same for the 
general employee population.
Age Employer contribution
15 – 19
65 – 67
60 – 64
55 – 59
50 – 54
45 – 49
40 – 44
35 – 39
30 – 34
25 – 29
20 – 24
6.30%
7.54%
8.99%
10.44%
12.31%
14.38%
17.07%
19.77%
23.29%
27.02%(2019 rate for Mr van Beurden)
30.13%
Governance

146
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
The measures and weightings applying to LTIP awards made in 2019 
were: energy transition (10%), FCF (22.5%), TSR (22.5%), ROACE 
growth (22.5%) and cashflow from operating activities growth (22.5%). 
Absolute measures 
Energy Transition 
The energy transition condition is focused on Shell’s strategic ambition 
to thrive in the energy transition and supports delivery of Shell’s Net 
Carbon Footprint (NCF) ambition.
This measure was introduced to the LTIP in 2019 under the existing 
remuneration policy, in advance of the 2020 policy vote. The 
condition consists of a mix of leading and lagging measures 
that set the foundations to contribute to Shell’s strategic ambitions 
in the longer term. These will comprise: 
Lagging measure – a measure of our progress in meeting our ambition 
 ■ Net Carbon Footprint: a target for reducing the NCF of the energy 
products Shell sells (a carbon intensity measure that takes into account 
their full life-cycle emissions, including customers’ emissions associated 
with using them).
Leading measures – the levers we will use to drive future NCF reduction 
 ■ The growth of our power business: growth in the use of electricity 
and continuing decarbonisation of electricity by shifting to renewables 
and gas-fired power generation is recognised as a key lever in all 
decarbonisation scenarios. Our ambition to grow the power business 
is based on selective investments in generation, and in business models 
based on reselling power generated by others;
 ■ Advanced biofuels technology: biofuels are expected to play a valuable 
role in the changing energy mix and are likely to be the key 
decarbonisation levers for sectors that need to continue to use liquid fuels 
in the foreseeable future, such as some segments of transport and 
industry. For society and for Shell, commercialisation of advanced biofuel 
technology is one of the most important steps in energy transition; and
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued
Operation of energy transition measures in the 2019 LTIP
 ■ the development of systems to capture and absorb carbon: carbon 
capture and storage (CCS) and carbon sinks, such as nature-based 
solutions are required as part of the global response to climate change. 
Targets have been set for each element. Progress in the energy transition 
is not expected to be linear as it will reflect the pace of change of society 
as a whole and the speed at which Shell progresses its strategic business 
objectives. Therefore, most of the targets have been set as ranges. Energy 
transition targets, with the exception of the NCF target, are considered to 
be commercially sensitive and will therefore be disclosed retrospectively. 
Annual updates on our progress in relation to the measures will be 
provided. The first update on progress is provided at page 147 .
The vesting outcome for the part of the award weighted to the energy 
transition condition ranges from 0% to 200% of grant. The REMCO, at its 
sole discretion, will determine vesting outcomes after taking into account 
achievement against the target ranges and feedback from the Safety, 
Environment and Sustainability Committee (SESCo). In doing so, the 
REMCO will take into account, in relation to each element, progress 
over the performance period relative to nearer-term aims in pursuit of 
the long-term ambition announced by Shell to reduce the NCF of energy 
products sold by around half by 2050, and by around 20% by 2035, 
in step with society’s drive to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. The 
starting point for determining the vesting outcome will be scoring how 
many of the targets have been met for each of the four areas. One out 
of four will equal 40%, two will equal 100%, three will equal 150% and 
200% will be achieved for scoring four out of four. However, it is important 
to note that performance against these elements will serve simply as a 
starting point for the REMCO, which will also take into account any other 
considerations it deems appropriate, including (without limitation) the 
relative importance of these elements in meeting the long-term ambition 
announced by Shell. For example, the REMCO may decide to allocate 
a greater emphasis to overall performance in relation to the NCF than 
the other three elements. The REMCO believes this approach is 
Energy transition vesting (basis for the Remuneration Committee’s decision) [A]
4/ 4 targets
200%
1/ 4 targets
40%
3/ 4 targets
150%
2/ 4 targets
100%
[A] The vesting schedule for the energy transition metric will be based on how many of the four targets are met. 1/4 will equal 40% vesting, 2/4 100%, 3/4 150%, 4/4 200%.
 The Remuneration Committee may take into account other appropriate considerations, after taking advice from the Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee.
 For example, increasing the weighting of NCF relative to the other performance conditions in making its vesting discretion. Any use of discretion will be disclosed and explained.   
Lagging – NCF reduction target 
■ Measured against 2016 base year 
2019 – 2021 performance period 
■ Target range 2-3% reduction
■ Target ranges 
■ Commercially sensitive
■ Disclosed retrospectively
Leading - Drive future NCF reduction 
■ Growing our power business 
■ Advanced biofuels technology
■ Systems to capture and absorb carbon 
■  10% weighting in 2019: expect to increase over time
■  Combination of leading and lagging measures
■ Targets set as ranges
■ Commercially sensitive targets so will be disclosed 
retrospectively.  Annual updates on progress relating 
to the measures will be provided 
Thrive in 
the energy 
transition
Governance

147
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
appropriate to reflect the uncertainties around the speed and direction of 
progress in the energy transition. The application of any discretion will be 
fully disclosed and explained by the REMCO.
FCF
The FCF performance condition supports our strategic ambition of being 
a world-class investment case, and the delivery of our cash flow priorities, 
namely: to service and reduce debt, pay dividends, buy back shares 
and make future capital investments.
The target for FCF, along with the ranges for threshold and outstanding 
performance, will be set by reference to Shell’s annual operating plans, 
being the aggregate of our plan FCF targets over the three-year 
performance period. Given FCF is heavily influenced by the volatility of oil 
and gas prices, the annual operating plans are updated each year to set 
an annual target to reflect a changing oil price premise. As a result, FCF 
targets are set annually for each annual operating plan and will only be 
disclosed in aggregate retrospectively after the three-year period. While 
consideration has been given to setting a three-year target at the outset, 
the REMCO has determined that such an approach would require 
adjustments for oil and gas price premise and other matters at the end of 
the period, given the unpredictability and volatility in oil and gas prices. 
The REMCO has a long-standing ‘no adjustments’ policy and therefore 
believes a more appropriate target-setting approach is to set the target 
based on the aggregation of the annual operating plans.
The amounts payable under this measure will range from 20% of the 
available maximum, for threshold performance, to full vesting for 
outstanding performance. A straight-line vesting schedule will apply 
for performance between threshold and outstanding. 
Relative measures
The relative measures support our strategic ambition of being a world-
class investment by measuring our performance on a number of key 
financial metrics against the other oil majors. 
For relative measures, we measure and rank growth based on the data 
points at the end of the performance period compared with those at the 
beginning of the period, using publicly reported data. 
 ■ TSR, calculated in dollars using a 90-day averaging period around 
the start and end of the performance period; 
 ■ ROACE growth. For this purpose, in order to facilitate the comparison, 
the calculation of ROACE differs from that described in “Performance 
indicators” on page 42 as there is no adjustment for after-tax interest 
expense; and
 ■ cash flow from operating activities growth.
Each relative measure can vest independently with the amounts 
payable ranging from 0% to 200%, in accordance with the following 
vesting schedule:
 ■ Ranking first equals 200% vesting for the element of the LTIP weighted 
to that metric;
 ■ Ranking second equals 150% vesting for the element of the LTIP 
weighted to that metric;
 ■ Ranking third equals 80% vesting for the element of the LTIP weighted 
to that metric; and
 ■ 0% vesting for the element weighted to that metric for ranking fourth 
or fifth.
If the TSR ranking is fourth or fifth, the level of the award that can 
vest on the basis of the other measures will be capped at 50% of 
the maximum. 
Performance update on absolute measures
FCF progress to date on outstanding 2018 LTIP award
At December 31, 2019, FCF performance is above target, with an 
above-target outcome for 2018 of $39 billion (target $29 billion) and 
below target for 2019 of $26.4 billion (target $35 billion). As one year 
of FCF performance remains, and 75% of the award is subject to 
relative performance conditions, this does not reflect the potential 
vesting of the award. 
FCF progress to date on outstanding 2019 LTIP award
At December 31, 2019, FCF performance, $26.4 billion for 2019, is below 
target ($35 billion). As two years of FCF performance remain, and 77 .5% 
of the award is subject to relative and the energy transition performance 
conditions, this does not reflect the potential vesting of the award. 
Energy Transition progress to date on outstanding 
2019 LTIP award
The target for the 2019 LTIP grant was a 2-3% reduction from 2016 
NCF (79 grams of CO
2 equivalent per megajoule). We have received 
third-party limited assurance on our Net Carbon Footprint for the years 
2016 to 2019. For 2019, our Net Carbon Footprint was 78 grams of 
CO
2 equivalent per megajoule. 
The targets for the other energy transition metrics are considered 
commercially sensitive and will not be disclosed until the end of the 
performance period. Examples of initiatives to progress our ambitions 
in the energy transition which the REMCO will take into account in 
determining the vesting outcome of the 2019 LTIP award, include: the 
acquisition of ERM Power Ltd (a large Australian business utility), and the 
WeForest and Forestry and Land Scotland NBS projects. 
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and 
share interests (audited) 
Shareholding guidelines 
The REMCO believes that Executive Directors should align their interests 
with those of shareholders by holding shares in Royal Dutch Shell plc (the 
Company). The CEO is expected to build a shareholding with a value of 
700% of base salary, and the CFO 400% of base salary (increased to 
500% from 2020).
Only unfettered shares count. Unvested shares held under the DBP and 
any shares delivered but subject to holding requirements, also count 
towards the guidelines. As at March 5, 2020, Ben van Beurden held 
shares worth 1,090% of his base salary. At March 5, 2020, Jessica Uhl 
held 467% of her base salary and has until March 2022 to meet her 
current shareholding target and January 2024 to meet her revised 
shareholding target. Non-executive Directors are encouraged to hold 
shares with a value equivalent to 100% of their fixed annual fee and 
maintain that holding during their tenure.
For 2020 the shareholding requirement will be extended to apply 
post-employment such that the Executive Director will be required to 
maintain their shareholding requirement, or the number of shares actually 
held if this is less than the shareholding requirement, for a period of two 
years post-employment.
Governance

148
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued
Executive Directors’ shareholding (audited)
Shareholding guideline 
(% of base salary)
Value of shares counting 
towards guideline 
(% of base salary at 
December 31, 2019)[A] 
Ben van Beurden 700% 1,136% 
Jessica Uhl 400% 265% 
[A] Representing the value of share interests and the estimated after-tax value of DBP shares 
(not subject to performance conditions).
Directors’ share interests 
The interests (in shares of the Company or calculated equivalents) of the 
Directors in office during 2019, including any interests of their connected 
persons, are set out in the table below.
Directors’ share interests (audited)
 
January 1, 2019  December 31, 2019
A shares B shares A shares B shares
Executive directors [A]
Ben van Beurden 281,524 – 6 47, 4 2 6 –
Jessica Uhl 61,097 [B] – 116,168 [C] –
Non-executive directors
Neil Carson – – 16,000 –
Ann Godbehere – 4,700 [D] – 4,700 [D]
Euleen Goh – 12,895 – 12,895
Charles O. Holliday – 50,000 [E] – 50,000 [E]
Catherine J. Hughes 4,080 46,904 4,080 51,904 [F]
Gerard Kleisterlee 5,254 – 5,254
Roberto Setubal 15,400 [G] – 15,400 [G]
Sir Nigel Sheinwald – 1,124 – 1,124
Linda G. Stuntz – 12,400 [H] – 12,400 [H]
Gerrit Zalm 2,026 – 2,026 –
[A] Includes vested LTIP awards subject to holding conditions. Excludes unvested interests 
in shares awarded under the LTIP and DBP.
[B] Held as 10,941 RDS A shares and 25,078 ADS (RDS.A ADS). Each RDS.A represents 
two A shares.
[C] Held as 26,590 RDS A shares and 44,789 ADS (RDS.A ADS). Each RDS.A represents 
two A shares. 
[D] Held as 2,350 ADSs (RDS.B ADS). Each RDS.B represents two B shares. 
[E] Held as 25,000 ADSs (RDS.B ADS). Each RDS.B represents two B shares.
[F] Held as 46,904 RDS B shares and 2,500 ADS (RDS.B. ADS). Each RDS.B represents 
two B shares.
[G] Held as 7 ,700 ADSs (RDS.A ADS). Each RDS.A represents two A shares.
[H] Held as 6,200 ADSs (RDS.B ADS). Each RDS.B represents two B shares.
Following the vesting of the 2017 LTIP and DBP awards, and delivery 
of the 2019 bonus in shares, Ben van Beurden’s share interests increased 
by 233,519 RDS A shares, and Jessica Uhl’s by 5,951 RDS A shares and 
58,456 RDS.A ADS.
In addition, Ben van Beurden sold 14,510 RDS A shares on January 31, 
2020. He also pledged 105,000 RDSA shares as collateral against a 
mortgage provided by Van Lanschot N.V. who adjusted their risk premium 
associated with the mortgage.
The value of shares counting towards the shareholding guideline (as a 
percentage of base salary) for the CEO and CFO, were 1,090% and 
467%, respectively, at March 5, 2020.
At March 5, 2020, the Directors and Senior Management 
(pages 104-112) of the Company beneficially owned, individually and 
in aggregate (including shares under option), less than 1% of the total 
shares of each class of the Company shares. These shareholdings are 
not considered sufficient to affect the independence of the Directors. 
Directors’ scheme interests 
The table below shows the aggregate position for Directors’ interests 
under share schemes at December 31. These are A shares for Ben van 
Beurden and A ADSs for Jessica Uhl. During the period from December 31, 
2019, to March 5, 2020, scheme interests have changed as a result of the 
vesting of the 2017 LTIP and DBP awards on March 4, 2020, and the 
2020 LTIP awards made on January 31, 2020, as described on pages 143 
and 145-147 respectively.
Directors’ scheme interests (audited)
Share plan interests [A]
LTIP/PSP subject 
to performance 
conditions [B]
DBP not subject 
to performance 
conditions [C] Total
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Ben van Beurden 660,814 715,591 56,783 159,617 7 17, 59 7875,208
Jessica Uhl 173,509 130,180 – – 173,509 130,180
[A] Includes unvested long-term incentive awards and notional dividend shares accrued at 
December 31. Interests are shown on the basis of the original awards. The shares subject to 
performance conditions can vest at between 0% and 200%. Dividend shares accumulate 
each year on an assumed notional LTIP/DBP award. Such dividend shares are disclosed and 
recorded on the basis of the number of shares conditionally awarded but, when an award 
vests, dividend shares will be awarded only in relation to vested shares as if the vested shares 
were held from the award date. Shares released during the year are included in the 
“Directors’ share interests” table.
[B] Total number of unvested LTIP shares at December 31, including dividend shares accrued 
on the original LTIP award. 
[C] The number of shares deferred from the bonus (original DBP award) and the dividend shares 
accrued on these at December 31. Delivery of the original DBP award and the related 
accrued dividend shares is not subject to performance conditions.
Dilution 
In any 10-year period, no more than 5% of the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company may be issued or issuable under executive 
(discretionary) share plans adopted by the Company, or 10% when 
aggregated with awards under any other employee share plan 
operated by the Company. To date, no shareholder dilution has 
resulted from these plans, although it is permitted under the rules 
of the plans subject to these limits. 
Payments to past Directors (audited) 
Simon Henry left the Company on June 30, 2017 . On March 4, 2020, 
Simon Henry’s 2017 DBP award vested and he received a total of 31,140 
RDS B shares, with a value at vesting of £539,158. While the original 
award of 25,339 RDS B shares was reported in the 2017 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, it is included again here in the interest 
of transparency. The remaining 5,801 RDS B shares represent 
accrued dividends paid in accordance with the plan and the value 
of these at vesting was £100,439. 
Payments below €5,000 are not reported as they are considered 
de minimis. 
Governance

149
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
TSR performance and CEO pay 
Performance graphs 
The graphs compare the TSR performance of Royal Dutch Shell plc over the past ten financial years with that of the companies comprising the Euronext 
100 and the FTSE 100 share indices. The Board regards these indices as appropriate broad market equity indices for comparison, as they are the 
leading market indices in Royal Dutch Shell plc’s home markets.
Historical TSR performance (RDSA)
Value of Hypothetical €100 Holding
Historical TSR performance (RDSB)
Value of Hypothetical £100 Holding
RDSA Euronext 100
€50
€25
€0
Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16 Dec-17 Dec-18 Dec-19
€75
€100
€125
€150
€175
€200
€225
€250
RDSB FTSE 100
£50
£25
£0
Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16 Dec-17 Dec-18 Dec-19
£75
£100
£125
£150
£175
£200
£225
£250
CEO pay outcomes 
The following table sets out the single total figure of remuneration, and the annual bonus payout and long-term incentive (LTI) vesting rates compared 
with the respective maximum opportunity, for the CEO for the last ten years.
CEO pay outcomes
Year CEO
Single total figure
of remuneration (€000)
Annual bonus payout
against maximum opportunity
LTI vesting rates 
against maximum opportunity
2019 Ben van Beurden 9,963 21% 74%
2018 Ben van Beurden 20,138 79% 95%
2017 Ben van Beurden 8,909 81% 35%
2016 Ben van Beurden 8,593 66% 42%
2015 Ben van Beurden 5,576 98% 8%
2014 Ben van Beurden [A] 24,198 94% 49%
2013 Peter Voser 8,456 44% 30%
2012 Peter Voser 18,246 83% 88%
2011 Peter Voser 9,941 90% 30%
2010 Peter Voser 10,611 100% 75%
[A] B en van Beurden’s single figure for 2014 was impacted by the increase in pension accrual (€10.695 million) calculated under the UK reporting regulations and tax equalisation (€7 .905 million) 
as a result of his promotion and prior assignment to the UK. 
Change in remuneration of Directors and employees 
from 2018 to 2019 
As Royal Dutch Shell plc does not have any direct employees, the table 
below compares the remuneration of the Directors of Royal Dutch Shell plc 
with an employee comparator group consisting of local employees in the 
Netherlands, the UK and the USA. The local employee population of 
these countries is considered to be a suitable employee comparator group 
because: these are countries with a significant Shell employee base; a 
large proportion of senior managers come from these countries; and the 
REMCO considers remuneration levels in these countries when setting 
base salaries for Executive Directors. For the purposes of comparison, 
the change in employee remuneration is calculated by reference to 
the change in salary scale, benefits and annual bonus for a notional 
employee in each of the base countries not by reference to the actual 
change in pay for a group of employees. 
Taxable benefits are those that align with the definition of taxable benefits 
applying in the respective country. In line with the “Single total figure of 
remuneration for Executive Directors” table, the annual bonus is included 
in the year in which it was earned. 
Change in remuneration of directors and employees
RDS 
employees
UK, US & NL 
employees
Executive Directors Non-executive directors
CEO CFO NS AG CH GK LS CJH RS GZ NC
Salaries N/A 3.3% 2.0% 2.0% 3.9% 82.6% 0.0% 12.2% -4.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% –
Taxable benefits[A] N/A -8.0% -36.4% 4.9% -94.7% 0.0% -6.3% -100.0% -39.0% -100.0% 100.0% 0.0% –
Annual bonus N/A -62.2% -73.3% - 67. 7 % – – – – – – – – –
[A] T he reduction in taxable benefits for employees is principally due to the buyout of a medical insurance allowance paid to Netherlands employees who received a one-off payment of €4,935 in 2018, 
which was not received in 2019. For the CEO, benefits are lower in 2019 due to the medical allowance, which he also received, and lower commuting and business required partner travel costs.
Governance

150
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Relative importance of spend on pay 
Distributions to shareholders by way of dividends and share buybacks 
and remuneration paid to or receivable by employees for the last five 
years are set out below, together with annual percentage changes. 
Relative importance of spend on pay
Year
Dividends and 
share buybacks [A]
Spend on pay 
(all employees) [B]
$ billion
Annual 
change $ billion
Annual 
change
2019 25.4 26% 13.2 -1.3%
2018 20.2 29% 13.4 -6%
2017 15.6 4% 14.3 -9%
2016 15.0 25% 15.7 -8%
2015 12.0 -18% 17.1 5%
[A] D ividends paid, which includes the dividends settled in shares via our Scrip Dividend 
Programme, and repurchases of shares as reported in the “Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity”. 
[B]
 E
mployee costs, excluding redundancy costs, as reported in Note 26 to the “Consolidated 
Financial Statements”.
Spend on pay can be compared with the major costs associated with 
generating income by referring to the “Consolidated Statement of 
Income”. Over the last five years, the average spend on pay was 5% of 
the major costs of generating income. These costs are considered to be 
the sum of: purchases; production and manufacturing expenses; selling, 
distribution and administrative expenses; research and development; 
exploration; and depreciation, depletion and amortisation. 
Total pension entitlements (audited) 
During 2019, Ben van Beurden and Jessica Uhl accrued retirement benefits 
under defined benefit plans. The pension accrued under these plans at 
December 31, 2019, is set out below. The exchange rates used for 
conversion into euros and dollars are at December 31, 2019.
Accrued pension (audited)
Thousand Local € $
Ben van Beurden [A]  € 1,285  € 1,285  $1,441 
Jessica Uhl [B]  $1,247  € 1,112  $1,247 
[A] T he accrued benefits are disclosed on a per annum basis.
[B]
 J
essica Uhl has an annual choice of two accrual formulas with different forms of benefits, one 
in the form of a lifetime annuity and the other allows for a lump-sum payment. She elected to 
accrue benefits up to 2018 under the former and the eventual lump sum benefit is shown. In 
2019, she elected to accrue benefits as a lifetime annuity, the value of this accrued benefit at 
December 31, 2019 was $3,932 per annum plus a lump sum of $98,281. She also has a 
deferred Dutch defined benefit pension plan, as a result of a prior Shell assignment on local 
Dutch terms and conditions. The age at which Jessica Uhl can receive any pension benefit 
without an actuarial reduction under this plan is 60. The value of the deferred pension 
benefit is €3,369 per annum.
The age at which Ben van Beurden can receive any pension benefit 
without actuarial reduction is 68 and for Jessica Uhl this is age 65. 
Any pension benefits on early retirement are reduced using actuarial 
factors to reflect early payment. No payments were made in 2019 
regarding early retirement or in lieu of retirement benefits. 
Please refer to page 145 for further details. (Pension)
External appointments
The Executive Directors held no external appointments in 2019. 
Statement of voting at 2019 AGM 
Shell’s 2019 AGM was held on May 21, 2019, in the Netherlands. The 
result of the poll in respect of Directors’ remuneration was as follows: 
Approval of Directors’ Remuneration Report
Votes Number Percentage
For 4,357 ,260,297 89.93%
Against 488,139,305 10.07%
Total cast 4,845,399,602[A] 100.00%
Withheld [B] 130,596,261  
[A] R epresenting 59.71% of issued share capital. 
[B]
 A v
ote “withheld” is not a vote under English law and is not counted in the calculation of 
the proportion of the votes “for” and “against” a resolution. 
The result of the poll in respect of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
approved at the 2017 AGM was as follows:
Approval of Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Votes Number Percentage
For 4,064,279,529 92.34%
Against 3 37, 3 61 , 8 3 5 7. 6 6%
Total cast 4,401,641,364 [A] 100.00%
Withheld [B] 37 ,303,341
[A] R epresenting 53.53% of issued share capital. 
[B]
 A v
ote “withheld” is not a vote under English law and is not counted in the calculation of the 
proportion of the votes “for” and “against” a resolution. 
Directors’ employment arrangements and letters 
of appointment 
Executive Directors are employed for an indefinite period. Non-executive 
Directors, including the Chair, have letters of appointment. Details of 
Executive Directors’ employment arrangements can be found in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy on page 161.
Further details of Non-executive Directors’ terms of appointment can be 
found in the”Other regulatory and statutory information” on page 170 
and the “Governance Framework” report on page 118. 
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued
Governance

151
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Compensation of directors and senior management 
During the year ended December 31, 2019, Shell paid and/or accrued 
compensation totalling $38 million (2018: $43 million) to Directors and 
Senior Management for services in all capacities while serving as a 
Director or member of Senior Management, including $3 million (2018: 
$3 million) accrued to provide pension, retirement and similar benefits. 
The amounts stated are those recognised in Shell’s income on an IFRS 
basis. See Note 27 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”. 
Personal loans or guarantees were not provided to Directors or 
Senior Management.
CEO pay ratio
Shell has chosen to use option A to calculate the CEO pay ratio in 
accordance with guidance from the UK government that this is the 
preferred approach and provides the statistically most accurate method 
for identifying the ratios. Under option A, a comparable single figure for 
all UK employees has been calculated in order to identify the employee 
whose pay and benefits are at the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles for 
comparison with the CEO. Employee pay has been calculated based 
on the total pay and benefits paid in respect of 2019 for all employees 
who were employed on 31 December 2019. For part-time workers and 
joiners in the year, pay and benefits have been annualised based on 
the proportion of their working time in the UK during the year. This 
is calculated with an approach consistent with the methodology for 
determining those employees’ 2019 annual bonuses. The REMCO 
believes that this provides a fair and reasonable calculation of the 
pay ratios for Shell employees in the UK. 
Option
25th Percentile 
pay ratio
Median 
pay ratio
75th 
pay ratio
2019 A 147:1 87:1 54:1
Total pay and benefits:
Salary: 
£59,419 
£40,417
£100,755 
£56,721
£161,717 
£79,991
2018 A 202:1 143:1 92:1
The ratio has changed for 2019 compared to 2018 principally due to the 
decrease in the Single Figure of remuneration for the CEO. This decrease 
is due to the lower bonus and LTIP vesting outcomes for 2019 compared to 
the outcomes in 2018. The pay and benefits for the 25th, 50th and 75th 
percentile employees have also reduced in relation to 2018. Please refer 
to page 137 for a discussion of the reasons behind the changes in 
employee pay and benefits. The REMCO believes these changes are 
consistent with the Group’s approach to managing pay as well as 
strategic developments in Shell’s business portfolio. 
Workforce engagement
The REMCO took a wide perspective in making the remuneration 
decisions for 2019 and determining the 2020 policy. As examples, 
in 2019 the REMCO noted:
 ■ the alignment between Shell’s culture and workforce policies, and 
incentives and rewards as part of the 2020 remuneration policy review;
 ■ the planned general employee salary increases in the UK, US and 
NL when determining 2020 base salaries;
 ■ the scorecard and Performance Share Plan (PSP) outcomes 
for employees in determining the 2019 variable pay outcomes 
for Executive Directors; and
 ■ the CEO pay ratio, which Shell has been voluntarily disclosing 
in advance of the regulatory requirement to do so, and gender 
pay gap reporting. 
Executive remuneration structures in Shell are strongly aligned to the 
broader Shell pay policy:
 ■ in recent years the Group Scorecard architecture has been identical 
to the Executive Committee and Senior Executive Scorecard 
in terms of measures, weightings and targets;
 ■ Executive Directors and Executive Committee members participate 
in the Long-Term Incentive Plan. Around 150 Senior Executives 
participate in the same plan. The measures and metrics for 
that plan also apply to 50% of the PSP awarded to around 
16,500 employees; and
 ■ all employees in the Group participate in the relevant pension plan 
for their country based on their date of joining. Shell does not 
operate separate executive pension arrangements.
This consistency means that less explanation of executive remuneration 
structures is required than in companies where alignment is not 
the default.
 
Governance

152
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued
STATEMENT OF 2020 PLANNED 
IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY 
The proposed Directors’ Remuneration Policy as outlined on pages 
155-163 will, subject to shareholder approval, take effect from May 19, 
2020 and will be effective until the 2023 AGM, unless a further policy 
is proposed by Shell and approved by shareholders in the meantime. 
This section describes elements that apply for 2020, within the 
boundaries of the policy.
Executive Directors 
Salaries 
Effective from January 1, 2020, the base salaries were set at €1,588,000 
(+2.0%) for Ben van Beurden and at €1,035,000 (+2.0%) for Jessica Uhl, 
in accordance with the proposed 2020 remuneration policy as set out on 
page 156. These increases are consistent with planned salary increases 
in the US, UK and NL for the general employee population which range 
from 1.7% – 3.4%. 
Annual bonus 
There are no changes to the scorecard measures and weightings for 
2020. Performance measures are comprised of cash flow from operating 
activities, operational excellence and sustainable development measures. 
These measures and weightings were reviewed by the REMCO as part of 
the 2020 policy review, with the REMCO determining that these remain 
well-aligned with our strategic and operational priorities and consistent 
with the performance indicators set out on pages 42-44. 
The performance measures, weightings and link to strategy for the 2020 
performance year are set out below:
2020 annual bonus scorecard measures and weightings
Performance measure Weighting
Financial 30%
Operational excellence 50%
Sustainable development 20%
Link to strategy 
Financial
 ■ Cashflow from 
operating activities
Aligned with our financial priorities, 
reflecting our ability to generate cash to 
service and reduce debt, pay the dividend 
and fund capital investment.
Operational excellence
 ■ Production 
 ■ LNG liquefaction volumes 
 ■ Refinery and chemical 
plant availability
 ■ Project delivery 
Representative performance metrics from 
our main business lines to drive focus on the 
operational delivery critical to our success 
and inspire a shared culture and alignment 
with our purpose, strategy and values.
These metrics measure the effectiveness 
with which we operate our assets 
and portfolio base. This operational 
performance underpins the successful 
delivery of our financial framework 
and ambitions to progress in the energy 
transition. Shell’s longer-term strategic 
ambitions are measured in the LTIP metrics.
Sustainable development
 ■ Safety 
 ■ Environmental 
performance 
We must maintain focus on safety and 
environmental performance, as this provides 
assurance to shareholders, employees and 
society of our commitment to safety and 
progress in the energy transition.
Annual bonus scorecard targets are not disclosed prospectively because 
to do so in a meaningful manner would require the disclosure of 
commercially sensitive information. As in previous years, scorecard targets 
will be disclosed in the subsequent Directors’ Remuneration Report when 
they are no longer deemed to be commercially sensitive.
Long-term Incentive Plan
On January 31, 2020, a conditional award of performance shares under 
the LTIP was made to the Executive Directors resulting in 200,589 Royal 
Dutch Shell plc A shares (A shares) being conditionally awarded to Ben 
van Beurden and 59,062 Royal Dutch Shell plc A American Depositary 
Shares (A ADSs) to Jessica Uhl. The award had a face value of 300% 
(maximum performance outcome 600%) of the base salary for the CEO 
and 270% (maximum performance outcome 540%) of the base salary for 
the CFO, excluding potential share price appreciation and dividends. In 
making these awards, the REMCO considered the Company’s share price 
and determined that there was no significant share price volatility that 
would require an adjustment to the size of the awards.
The award for the CEO has been reduced from a face value award of 
340% (maximum vesting outcome 680%) in prior years. This reduction is 
part of the REMCOs response to addressing quantum and further details 
are provided on pages 137-138.
For LTIP awards made in 2020, performance will be assessed over 
a three-year period based on four financial measures and an energy 
transition condition. 
The target for the FCF metric is the aggregate of our annual operational 
business plan FCF targets over the three-year performance period. 
These are considered to be commercially sensitive and will be disclosed 
retrospectively, with annual updates on progress provided.
The NCF target range for the 2020 – 2022 LTIP grant is set as a 3-4% 
reduction from the 2016 NCF of 79g CO
2e/MJ. This target is aligned 
with the trajectory of our NCF ambition set out in November 2017 . 
There is no change to the other energy transition measures other than 
the advanced biofuel technology measure is extended to include a 
measure of alternative fuel development. The targets for the other 
leading energy transition measures are commercially sensitive, 
and will be disclosed retrospectively.
Governance

153
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
2020 LTIP measure and vesting schedule Discretion, adjustment (malus) and recovery (clawback) 
Variable pay elements are subject to adjustment (malus) and recovery 
(clawback) provisions, which may apply in case of direct responsibility or 
supervisory accountability. The REMCO may adjust an award, for 
example by lapsing part or all of it, reducing the number of shares which 
would otherwise vest, by imposing additional conditions on it, or imposing 
a new holding period or applying clawback. 
Please refer to the policy section on pages 157 and 159 for a full 
description of the circumstances under which discretion, malus and 
clawback might be applied to a variable pay award. 
Pension 
Ben van Beurden’s pension arrangements comprise a defined benefit plan 
for which the maximum pensionable salary has increased to €98,993 for 
2020 and a net pay defined contribution pension plan with an employer 
contribution of 27% of salary in excess of this amount.
Jessica Uhl’s US retirement benefit arrangements include the Shell Pension 
Plan, a defined benefit plan, and a defined contribution plan with an 
employer contribution of 10% of salary. She also has a deferred Dutch 
defined benefit pension plan, as a result of a prior Shell assignment on 
local Dutch terms and conditions. 
Further details of Executive Director pension arrangements can be 
found on page 145.
  Absolute measures   R elative measures 
Energy transition 10%
Free cash flow 22.5%
TSR 22.5%
ROACE growth 22.5%
Cash flow 
from operating  
activities growth
22.5%
Link to strategy Vesting schedule 
(% of initial LTIP award)
Energy transition 
Focused on Shell’s strategy to thrive in 
the energy transition and support 
delivery of our NCF ambition. 
Vesting based on how many 
targets are achieved: 
1/4 = 40%
2/4 = 100%
3/4 = 150% 
4/4 = 200%
REMCO may take into account 
other appropriate considerations
Free cash flow
Recognition of the importance of 
generating cash after net capital 
expenditure to service and reduce 
debt, pay dividends, buy back shares 
and make future capital investments.
Maximum – 200%
Target – 100%
Threshold – 40%
Below 
 t
hreshold – 0%
TSR
Assessment of actual wealth
created for shareholders.
1st – 200%
2nd – 150%
3rd – 80%
4th or 5th – nil
ROACE growth
Indicator of capital discipline.
Cash flow from operating 
activities growth
Source of capital expenditure 
commitments which support 
sustainable growth based on 
portfolio and cost management.
TSR underpin
If TSR is in fourth or fifth, vesting on the other measures is capped 
at 50% of maximum.
Holding period
3-years post-vesting which remains in force post-tenure.
Governance

154
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued
The Chair’s fee is determined by the REMCO and the annual fee for 
Charles O. Holliday was set at €850,000 upon appointment in 2015 and 
will remain unchanged for 2020. The Chair of the Board does not receive 
any additional fee for chairing the Nomination and Succession 
Committee or attending any other Board committee meeting. 
The Non-executive Directors receive a basic fee. There are additional 
fees for the Senior Independent Director, a Board committee chair or a 
Board committee member for each committee. Non-executive Directors 
receive an additional fee of €5,000 for any Board meeting involving 
intercontinental travel, except for one meeting a year held in a location 
other than The Hague. Business expenses (including transport between 
home and office and occasional business-required spouse travel) and 
associated tax are paid or reimbursed by Shell. The Chair has use of 
a Shell-provided apartment while in The Hague. 
The Board reviews Non-executive Directors’ fees periodically to ensure 
that they are aligned with those of other major listed companies using 
the FTSE 30 and the Europe Comparator group as the primary points of 
reference. The last general review was carried out in 2018 with a review 
of the Nomination and Succession Committee fees in 2019 and fees will 
remain unchanged for 2020.
Non-executive Directors’ fees
Non-executive Directors’ fees 2020
 € Other fees
Chair of the Board 850,000 Non-executive Directors receive 
an additional fee of €5,000 for 
any Board meeting involving 
intercontinental travel – except 
for one meeting a year held in a 
location other than The Hague.
Non-executive Director 135,000
Senior Independent Director 55,000
Audit Committee
Chair [A] 60,000
Member 25,000
Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee [B]
Chair [A] 35,000
Member 17, 2 5 0
Nomination and Succession Committee
Chair [A] 25,000
Member 12,000
Remuneration Committee
Chair [A] 40,000
Member 17, 2 5 0
[A] T he chair of a committee does not receive an additional fee for membership of that committee.
[B] Formerly the Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee.
Governance

155
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy sets out
 ■ Summary of proposed changes to the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy, page 155;
 ■ Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy, page 156; and
 ■ Non-executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy, page 162.
This section describes the Directors’ Remuneration Policy (Policy) which, 
subject to shareholder approval at the 2020 Annual General Meeting 
(AGM), will come into effect from May 19, 2020, and will be effective until 
the 2023 AGM, unless a further policy is proposed by Royal Dutch Shell 
plc (the Company) and approved by shareholders in the meantime.
The principles underpinning the REMCO’s approach to executive 
remuneration are the foundation for everything we do, and are: 
 ■ Alignment with Shell’s strategy: the Executive Directors’ compensation 
package should be strongly linked to the achievement of stretching 
targets that are seen as indicators of the execution of Shell’s strategy; 
 ■ Pay for performance: the majority of the Executive Directors’ 
compensation (excluding benefits and pensions) should be linked 
directly to Shell’s performance through variable pay instruments; 
 ■ Competitiveness: remuneration levels should be determined by 
reference internally against Shell’s Senior Management and externally 
against companies of comparable size, complexity and global scope; 
 ■ Long-term creation of shareholder value: Executive Directors should 
align their interests with those of shareholders by holding shares in Shell; 
 ■ Consistency: the remuneration structure for Executive Directors should 
generally be consistent with the remuneration structure for Shell’s senior 
management. This consistency builds a culture of alignment with Shell’s 
purpose and a common approach to sharing in Shell’s success; 
 ■ Compliance: decisions should be made in the context of the Shell 
General Business Principles and Code of Conduct. The REMCO 
also seeks to ensure compliance with applicable laws 
and corporate governance requirements when designing 
and implementing policies and plans; and 
 ■ Risk assessment: the remuneration structures and rewards should 
meet risk-assessment tests to ensure that shareholder’s interests 
are safeguarded and that inappropriate actions are avoided.
The Executive Directors’ remuneration structure is made up of a fixed element 
of basic pay and two variable elements: the annual bonus (50% delivered in 
shares) and the Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP). Variable pay outcomes are 
conditional on the successful execution of the operating plan in the short 
term and the delivery of strategic goals and financial outperformance over 
the longer term. The award of shares under the bonus and LTIP, along with 
significant shareholding requirements, is intended to ensure executives have 
a sizeable shareholding in Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Company) and 
experience the same outcomes as shareholders. 
During 2018 and 2019, the REMCO reviewed the Remuneration Policy to 
ensure that the Policy continues to be aligned with Shell’s strategy, 
including delivery of shareholder returns. REMCO determined that while 
the current policy remains appropriate in many respects, certain changes 
will support the REMCO to simplify remuneration structures and address 
the management of quantum. For each area of the policy, the REMCO has 
considered market practice, the corporate governance environment and 
feedback from shareholders. The Safety, Environment and Sustainability 
Committee (SESCo) has provided input to the development of the 
sustainable development and energy transition metrics. Any potential 
conflict of interest is mitigated by the independence of the REMCO 
members and the REMCO Terms of Reference.
A summary of the main proposed changes to the Policy for the Executive 
Directors is outlined below. No significant changes are proposed to the 
Policy for Non-executive Directors.
Remuneration 
element Proposed Changes to Policy Rationale for the change
Annual Bonus  ■ Reduction of the CEO’s target bonus from 150% to 125%; and
 ■ Removal of the individual performance factor for Executive Directors.
 ■ Simplification: The asymmetry in the CEO’s bonus 
structure and the inclusion of individual performance 
factors was creating undue complexity; and
 ■ Transparency: The annual bonus is now solely 
linked to the performance of Shell to support 
clarity and transparency of outcomes.
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan
 ■ Reduction of the target LTIP grant from 400% to 300% of base salary; and
 ■ Inclusion of an energy transition metric.
 ■ Management of Quantum: To moderate the 
quantum of pay and assist the REMCO in 
managing the range of outcomes; and
 ■ Alignment to Strategy: Inclusion of the energy 
transition metric strengthens the LTIP’s alignment to 
the strategy and purpose. 
Discretion, Malus 
& Clawback
 ■ After reviewing the single figure outcomes for the year, the REMCO will consider an adjustment 
for the purposes of managing remuneration quantum, taking into account performance, 
the operation of the remuneration structures and any other relevant considerations. 
An explanation of any discretionary adjustment would be set out in the relevant 
Director’s Remuneration Report;
 ■ Alignment of malus and clawback provisions so that these are the same. 
Inclusion of corporate failure as an adjustment event; and
 ■ Amendment of provisions in the share plan such that for future grants, awards may be 
adjusted for any reason.
 ■ Corporate Governance: Assist the REMCO 
in managing the risks from behavioural-based 
incentive schemes; and 
 ■ Management of Quantum: To assist the 
REMCO in managing the range of outcomes.
Pension
 ■ New Executive Directors who are members of a defined benefit pension arrangement will have 
their pensionable salary capped at the salary applicable immediately prior to appointment, 
with the exception of existing US base country participants who will have the bonus removed 
from the definition of pensionable base salary instead. The Executive Director will join a 
defined contribution scheme in their base country for contributions made in respect of salary 
above the defined benefit pensionable salary, or in exceptional circumstances, receive a 
cash allowance equivalent to the contribution above the cap; and
 ■ For recruitment: Explicit confirmation that new appointees, whether internally promoted or newly 
hired, will be provided with a pension in line with the wider workforce in their base country.
 ■ Management of Quantum: To moderate 
the quantum of pay and assist the REMCO 
in managing the range of outcomes; and
 ■ Corporate Governance: To adopt best practice 
in line with external guidelines.
Shareholding 
Requirement
 ■ CFO requirement increased to 500% of base salary; and
 ■ Extended to apply for a period of two years post-employment (at the lower of the shareholding 
requirement or the number of shares held at departure).
 ■ Alignment with Shareholders: Further 
aligns executives with the long-term interests 
of shareholders.
Governance

156
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
Executive Directors’ remuneration policy table
Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity Operation and performance management
Salary and pensionable base salary
Provides a fixed level of 
earnings to attract and 
retain Executive Directors.
€2,000,000 Reviewed annually with adjustments effective from January 1.
In making salary determinations, the REMCO will consider:
 ■ the market positioning of the compensation packages;
 ■ comparison with Senior Management salaries; 
 ■ the employee context, and planned average salary increase for other employees 
across the Netherlands, the UK and the USA;
 ■ the experience, skills and performance of the Executive Director, or any change 
in the scope and responsibility of their role;
 ■ general economic conditions, Shell’s financial performance, and governance 
trends; and
 ■ the impact of salary increases on pension benefits and other elements of 
the package.
For Executive Directors employed outside their base country, euro base salaries 
are translated into their home currency for pension purposes. Pensionable base salaries 
are maintained in line with euro base salaries taking into account exchange rate 
fluctuations and other factors as determined by the REMCO. 
Benefits
Provides benefits, in line with 
those applicable to the wider 
workforce, in order to attract 
and retain Executive Directors.
The maximum opportunity is the cost 
of providing the benefit under Shell’s 
standard policy. These costs can vary.
For certain benefits, for example, 
relocation and tax equalisation, the 
maximum opportunity will be the 
grossed-up cost of meeting the specific 
Executive Director’s costs.
Typical benefits include car allowances and home-to-office transport, risk benefits (for 
example ill-health, disability or death-in-service), security provision, and employer 
contributions to insurance plans (such as medical). Precise benefits will depend on the 
Executive Director’s specific circumstances. Post-retirement benefits such as healthcare 
and ongoing security provision may be applicable. Shell’s mobility policies may apply, 
such as for relocation and tax return preparation support, as may tax equalisation 
related to expatriate employment prior to Board appointment, or in other limited 
circumstances to offset double taxation. The REMCO may adjust the range and scope 
of the benefits offered in the context of developments for other employees in relevant 
countries. Personal loans or guarantees are not provided to Executive Directors.
Annual bonus 
Rewards the delivery of short-term 
operational targets as derived 
from Shell’s operating plan.
To reinforce alignment with 
shareholder interests, 50% is 
delivered in cash and 50% is 
delivered in shares. The shares 
are subject to a three-year holding 
period, which applies beyond an 
Executive Director’s tenure.
Maximum bonus (as a percentage of 
base salary):
 ■ Chief Executive Officer (CEO): 250%
 ■ Chief Financial Officer (CFO): 240%
Target levels (as a percentage of 
base salary):
 ■ CEO: 125%
 ■ CFO: 120%
 ■ The bonus is determined by reference to performance from January 1 to December 31 
each year;
 ■ Annual bonus = base salary x target bonus % x scorecard result (0–2); 
 ■ Taking the Shell operating plan into consideration, REMCO sets stretching scorecard 
targets and weightings which support the delivery of the strategy. Measures are 
related to financial performance, operational excellence and sustainable 
development. Indicative weightings are 30%, 50% and 20% respectively. This 
balance ensures that the achievement of short-term financial performance does not 
undermine future shareholder value creation; 
 ■ Scorecard targets will be disclosed in a subsequent Directors’ Remuneration Report 
when they are no longer deemed to be commercially sensitive;
 ■ There are no prescribed thresholds or minimum levels of performance that equate to a 
prescribed payment under the Policy and this structure can result in no bonus being 
awarded; 
 ■ The annual bonus is subject to malus provisions before it is delivered and to clawback 
provisions thereafter; 
 ■ The REMCO retains the ability to adjust performance measure targets and 
weightings year-by-year within the overall target and maximum payouts approved 
in the Policy; and 
 ■ In the event that another Executive Director joins the Board, the REMCO 
will determine their target and maximum bonus, which will not exceed 
the target and maximum for the CEO. 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY continued
Governance

157
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Executive Directors’ remuneration policy table continued
Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity Operation and performance management
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Rewards longer-term value creation 
linked to Shell’s strategy. The 
measures predominantly focus on 
financial growth and increases in 
value compared with the other oil 
majors, supported by measures 
focused on the achievement 
of Shell’s ambitions in the 
energy transition.
To reinforce alignment with 
shareholder interests, shares 
delivered from vested LTIP awards 
are subject to a three-year holding 
period, which applies beyond an 
Executive Director’s tenure.
Target award of 300% base salary.
Awards may vest at up to 200% of the 
shares originally awarded, plus 
dividends.
 ■ Award levels are determined annually by the REMCO within the approved 
policy maximum;
 ■ Awards may vest between 0% and 200% of the initial award depending on Shell’s 
performance assessed on either an absolute basis against strategic targets, or on a 
relative basis against the other oil majors;
 ■ Performance metrics and targets are set by the REMCO at the beginning of the 
relevant performance period. When setting performance targets, the REMCO 
allocates weightings to each metric as it considers appropriate taking into account 
strategic priorities;
 ■ For 2020, performance is assessed over three years based 90% on financial metrics 
(TSR, ROACE, FCF and CFFO) which support our strategic ambition to be a 
world-class investment case and 10% on a measure focused on thriving in the 
energy transition; 
 ■ Additional shares are released representing the value of dividends payable on the 
vested shares, as if these had been owned from the award date; 
 ■ LTIP awards (net of tax) must be held for a further three years to align with 
Shell’s longer-term time horizon and strategy;
 ■ The LTIP award is subject to malus provisions before it is delivered and to clawback 
provisions thereafter;
 ■ The REMCO may adjust or change the LTIP measures, targets and weightings 
to ensure continued alignment with Shell’s strategy; and
 ■ In the event that another Executive Director joins the Board the REMCO will 
determine their award level.
Discretion, Malus and Clawback
Enables the management of risks 
from behavioural-based incentive 
schemes and the REMCO to 
manage the range of pay 
outcomes.
Adjustment events exist for the purposes 
of applying malus and clawback.
The REMCO retains discretion to adjust 
pay outcomes.
The REMCO retains the discretion to adjust mathematical outcomes of the annual bonus 
scorecard and / or LTIP vesting for any Executive Director if and to the extent that 
it considers this appropriate at their sole discretion.
The use of any discretion will be disclosed and explained.
The REMCO may adjust pay outcomes for the purposes of managing quantum. This 
would be done at the REMCO’s discretion after considering single figure outcome for 
the year, taking into account Shell’s performance, the operation of the remuneration 
structures and any other relevant considerations. 
Please refer to page 159 for a summary of the defined adjustment events. 
Pension
Provides a competitive 
retirement provision under 
the individual’s base country 
benefits policy, to attract and 
retain Executive Directors.
Determined by the rules of the base 
country pension plan of which the 
Executive Director is a member.
Executive Directors’ retirement benefits are maintained in line with those of the wider 
workforce in their base country. Only base salary is pensionable, unless country plan 
regulations specify otherwise and cannot legally be disapplied. The rules of the relevant 
plans detail the pension benefits which members can receive. The REMCO retains the 
right to amend the form of any Executive Director’s pension arrangements where 
appropriate, for example in response to changes in legislation to ensure the original 
objective of this element of remuneration is preserved.
New Executive Directors, whether internal appointees or external hires, will be provided 
with a retirement benefit in line with the wider workforce in their base country. For 
individuals who are members of a defined benefit pension arrangement: 
 ■ The pensionable salary will be capped at the salary applicable immediately prior to 
appointment, with the exception of existing US base country participants who will 
have the bonus removed from the definition of pensionable base salary instead; and
 ■ The Executive Director will join a defined contribution scheme in their base country for 
contributions made in respect of salary above the defined benefit pensionable salary, 
or in exceptional circumstances, receive a cash allowance equivalent to the 
contribution above the cap. 
Shareholding requirement
Aligns interests of Executive 
Directors with those of shareholders 
by creating a connection between 
individual wealth and Shell’s 
long-term performance.
Shareholding (% of base salary):
 ■ CEO: 700%
 ■ CFO: 500%
Executive Directors are expected to build up their shareholding to the required level over 
a period of five years from appointment and, once reached, to maintain this level for the 
full period of their appointment. The intention is for the shareholding guideline to be 
reached through retention of vested shares from share plans. The REMCO will monitor 
individual progress and retains the ability to adjust the guideline in special circumstances 
on an individual basis.
The Executive Director will be required to maintain their shareholding requirement (or 
existing shareholding if lower) for a period of two years from the date they cease to be 
an employee.
In the event that another Executive Director joins the Board the REMCO will determine 
their Shareholding requirement level, which will not be less than 200% in line with 
corporate governance best practice. 
Governance

158
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Notes to the Executive Directors’ remuneration 
policy table 
Comparator group
The benchmarking comparator group consists of the other oil majors 
(BP, Chevron, ExxonMobil, and Total) and a selection of major 
Europe-based companies. 
The comparator companies are reviewed by the REMCO as part of the 
Remuneration Policy review every three years. The last review took place 
in 2019 in preparation for the 2020 Directors’ Remuneration Policy vote. 
No changes to the comparator group are proposed. 
The other oil majors are included in the comparator group as these 
represent our closest direct competitors operating in similar market 
conditions. The Europe-based companies are selected based on their size, 
complexity and global reach. The REMCO uses benchmark data from 
these companies only as a guide to the competitiveness of the 
remuneration packages. We do not seek to position our remuneration 
at any defined point against the benchmarked positions. 
The REMCO retains the right to alter the comparator group as it sees fit 
in order to ensure it remains an appropriate and relevant benchmark. 
2020 European comparator group
Allianz Daimler Rio Tinto
AstraZeneca Diageo Roche
BAT GlaxoSmithKline Siemens
Bayer Nestle Unilever
BHP Billiton Novartis Vodafone
Benefits 
Benefits for Executive Directors deemed taxable in the UK are included 
as taxable benefits in the single total figure of remuneration table. These 
elements may include transport to and from home and office, the provision 
of home security, and occasional business-required partner travel, which 
are generally considered legitimate business expenses rather than 
components of remuneration. 
Annual bonus 
For the 2020 performance year, the scorecard framework will consist of 
cash flow from operating activities (30% weight), operational excellence 
(50% weight) and sustainable development (20% weight). Targets are 
derived from the annual business plan. These measures are designed to 
drive focus on the financial and operational performance critical to our 
success as a world-class investment case and to maintain a strong licence 
to operate, underpinned by our commitment to safety and journey to 
thrive in the energy transition. The REMCO believes it is important for 
annual variable pay to remain balanced, with operational and 
environmental components, complementing the LTIP’s focus on longer-term 
financial and strategic outcomes. The same annual bonus scorecard 
applies to the majority of group employees, supporting consistency 
of remuneration and alignment of objective across employees 
and senior management. 
For future years, the specific measures and weightings for the annual 
bonus scorecard will be reviewed annually by the REMCO and adjusted 
accordingly to evolve with Shell’s strategy and circumstances. The annual 
review will also consider the scorecard target and outcome history over 
a decade to ensure that the targets set remain stretching but realistic. The 
REMCO retains the right to exercise its judgement to adjust the 
mathematical bonus scorecard outcome to ensure that the bonus 
scorecard outcome for Executive Directors reflects other aspects of Shell’s 
performance which the REMCO deems appropriate for the reported year. 
Annual bonus – time horizon
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY continued
Long-term Incentive Plan 
The LTIP rewards longer-term performance linked to Shell’s strategy, which 
includes cash generation, capital discipline, value created for shareholders 
as well as progress towards meeting our ambition to thrive in the energy 
transition.
For 2020, the absolute measures will be FCF and energy transition, and 
relative growth compared with our peers will be based on: TSR, ROACE 
and CFFO. The relative measures, which focus on outperforming our 
closest competitors on key financial metrics, are supported by the 
absolute FCF metric which provides cash to service and repay debt, make 
shareholder distributions and fund capital investment. These are aligned 
with our strategic ambition to be a world-class investment case, and are 
supported by an energy transition measure focused on thriving in the 
energy transition and delivering our NCF target.
For the relative measures, 200% vests for first position, 150% for second, 
80% for third and 0% for ranking fourth or fifth. The comparator group 
consists of four of the strongest companies in our industry (BP, Chevron, 
ExxonMobil and Total). Outperforming Shell’s closest competitors on 
key financial metrics is challenging. A vesting outcome of 80% for 
median performance (40% of maximum) in a small comparator group 
is considered appropriate by the REMCO. The REMCO is aware that 
vesting for median performance is generally set at a limit of 25% of 
maximum for other UK companies. However, these are typically 
applied against a larger comparator group. 
The REMCO will regularly review the measures, weightings and 
comparator group, and retains the right to adjust these to ensure that 
the LTIP continues to serve its intended purpose with a stretching level 
of challenge. If the REMCO was to propose any material changes 
to the LTIP performance metrics, it would consult with major shareholders. 
TSR underpin 
If the TSR ranking is fourth or fifth, the level of the award that can vest 
on the basis of the other measures will be capped at 50% of the 
maximum payout for the LTIP. 
The detailed weightings and metrics applicable to the 2020 bonus 
scorecard are set out on page 152.
The detailed weightings and metrics applicable to the 2020 grant 
are set out on page 153.
Bonus delivered Three year holding
period ends
Yr 1
Net of tax shares held for three years
Yr 2 Yr 3 Yr 4 Yr 5
Performance
period
50%
delivered
in cash
50%
delivered
in shares
Governance

159
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Performance Period
LTIP performance is assessed over a three-year period. Vested shares from 
the LTIP are subject to a further three-year holding period post-vesting. This 
holding period commences on the date of vesting and remains in force 
beyond an Executive Director’s tenure. This time horizon is deemed to be 
suitable for incentive purposes but is recognised as short relative to some 
of Shell’s operations. However, the REMCO believes that it provides for 
broad alignment with shareholder interests when coupled with significant 
shareholding requirements. 
for the purposes of managing remuneration quantum. In making any 
adjustment to the annual bonus or LTIP vesting outcome for this purpose 
REMCO will consider the overall level of remuneration for the Executive 
Director, the operation of the annual bonus, the operation of the LTIP, 
the wider performance of Shell over the performance periods, as well 
as the internal context for other employees. 
An explanation of any discretionary adjustment would be set out in the 
relevant Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Treatment of outstanding awards 
Awards granted prior to the approval and implementation of this Policy 
and/or prior to an individual becoming an Executive Director will continue 
to vest and be delivered in accordance with the terms of the original 
award even if this is not consistent with the terms of this Policy. 
As at March 10, 2020, this applies to Executive Directors Ben van Beurden 
and Jessica Uhl who each have outstanding awards under the LTIP.
Shareholding 
The REMCO believes significant shareholding by Executive Directors is 
an important way of ensuring that shareholders and Executive Directors 
share the same priorities. Shareholding is one of Shell’s core remuneration 
principles as it creates a balanced connection between individual wealth 
and Shell’s long-term performance. This will support effective governance 
and an ownership mindset. Significant shareholding requirements reflect 
the performance timescales of Shell and are aligned with absolute 
shareholder return.
The CEO is expected to build up a shareholding of seven times their base 
salary over five years from appointment. The CFO is expected to build up 
a shareholding of five times their base salary over the same period. In the 
event of an increase to the guideline multiple of salary, for every additional 
multiple of salary required, the director will have one extra year to reach 
the increased guideline, subject to a maximum of five years from the 
date of the change. 
Executive Directors will be required to maintain their shareholding 
requirement (or their existing shareholding if less than the guideline) 
for a period of two years post-employment. 
The holding periods for LTIP vested shares and shares delivered as 
part of the annual bonus continue to apply after Executive Directors 
leave employment. 
Differences for Executive Directors from other employees 
The remuneration structure and approach to setting remuneration levels 
is consistent across Shell, with consideration given to location, seniority 
and responsibilities. However, a higher proportion of total remuneration 
is tied to variable pay for Executive Directors and members of 
Senior Management. 
The salary for each Executive Director is determined based on the 
indicators in the “Executive Directors’ remuneration policy table”, which 
reflect the international nature of the Executive Directors’ labour market. 
The salary for other employees is normally set on a country basis. 
LTIP time horizon
Discretion, malus and clawback
Variable pay awards may be made subject to adjustment events. 
At the discretion of REMCO, such an award may be adjusted before 
delivery (malus) or reclaimed after delivery (clawback) if an adjustment 
event occurs. 
Adjustment events will be specified in award documentation and it is 
intended that they will, for example, relate to restatement of financial 
statements due to material non-compliance with a financial reporting 
requirement; misconduct by an Executive Director or misconduct through 
their direction or non-direction; any material breach of health and safety 
or environment regulations; serious reputational damage to Shell; material 
failure of risk management; corporate failure; or other exceptional events 
as determined at the discretion of the REMCO. The REMCO retains the 
right to alter the list of adjustment events in respect of future awards. 
In addition, the REMCO retains the discretion to adjust mathematical 
outcomes if and to the extent that it considers this appropriate. This power 
to adjust the outcomes is broad and includes adjusting the outcomes to 
zero. For example, an adjustment might be made if the REMCO considers:
 ■ The mathematical outcomes do not reflect the wider financial or 
non-financial performance of RDS or the participant over the 
performance period;
 ■ The LTIP vesting percentage is not appropriate in the context of 
circumstances that were unexpected or unforeseen at award; and 
 ■ There is any other reason why an adjustment is appropriate. 
It is not anticipated that discretion would be used for upwards adjustment. 
If, in exceptional circumstances, it was considered, this would be done 
only after consultation with major shareholders. 
Performance outcomes and/or share price appreciation make it difficult 
to predict the final amounts delivered under the LTIP at the time of award. 
In years where the vesting outcome makes the total remuneration 
inappropriate for any Executive Director, the REMCO will consider an 
adjustment to the annual bonus outcome or the LTIP vesting outcome 
Yr 1 Yr 2 Yr 3 Yr 4 Yr 6Yr 5
Three year holding
period ends
Net of tax shares 
held for three years
Performance period
100% delivered 
in shares
Governance

160
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY continued
Executive Directors are eligible to receive the standard benefits and 
allowances provided to other employees. The provisions which are not 
generally available for other employees are described in “Benefits”. 
The methodology used for determining the annual bonus for Executive 
Directors is broadly consistent with the approach for Shell employees 
generally. However, bonuses for the majority of Shell employees are 
determined taking into account individual and business performance, 
whereas bonuses for Executive Directors are based solely on business 
performance. Although the makeup and weightings scorecard used for 
the majority of Shell employees is currently aligned with the scorecard, 
these scorecards may differ if required to support the achievement of 
business objectives. All Executive Directors and Executive Committee 
members receive 50% of their annual bonus in shares, which are subject 
to a three-year holding period. 
Executive Directors are not eligible to receive new awards under 
employee share plans other than the LTIP, although awards previously 
granted will continue to vest in accordance with the terms of the original 
award. Selected employees participate in the Performance Share Plan 
(PSP). The operation of the PSP is similar to the LTIP, but currently differs, 
for example, in some performance measures and their relative weightings. 
As at March 2020, around 51,000 employees participate in one or more 
of Shell’s global share plans and/or incentive plans, further supporting 
alignment with shareholder interests. 
Executive Directors’ retirement benefits are maintained in line with those 
of the wider workforce in their base country. 
Illustration of potential remuneration outcomes 
The charts on this page represent estimates under four performance 
scenarios (“Minimum”, “On-target”, “Maximum” and “Maximum, 
assuming a 50% share price appreciation between award and vest”) 
of the potential remuneration outcomes for each Executive Director 
resulting from the application of 2020 base salaries to awards made in 
accordance with the proposed Policy. The majority of Executive Directors’ 
remuneration is delivered through variable pay elements, which are 
conditional on the achievement of stretching targets. 
The REMCO will review the formulaic Single Figure outcome relative 
to the quality of performance outcomes and adjust these, taking into 
account Shell’s performance, shareholder experience, the operation of 
the remuneration structures and any other relevant factors, to ensure that 
the highest variable pay outcomes are only achieved in years with the 
highest quality performance.
The scenario charts are based on future Policy award levels and are 
combined with projected single total figures of remuneration. The pay 
scenarios are forward-looking and only serve to illustrate the future Policy. 
For simplicity, the minimum, on-target and maximum scenarios assume no 
share price movement and exclude dividend accrual, for the portion of the 
bonus paid in shares and the LTIP, although dividend accrual during the 
performance and holding period applies. The scenarios are based on 
the current CEO (Ben van Beurden) and CFO (Jessica Uhl) roles.
CEO pay scenarios (€m)
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 2216 18 20
Minimum
On-target
Maximum 14% 25% 61% 15.7 20.4
24%
100%
22% 54% 8.9
2.1
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 2216 18 20
Minimum
On-target
Maximum 17% 26% 57% 9.7 13.8
29%
100%
22% 49% 5.7
1.6
CFO pay scenarios (€m)
Fixed remuneration
Annual incentive
Long-term incentive
Maximum assuming 50%
share price appreciation
Fixed remuneration
Annual incentive
Long-term incentive
Maximum assuming 50%
share price appreciation
Recruitment 
The REMCO determines the remuneration package for new Executive 
Director appointments. These appointments may involve external 
or internal recruitment or reflect a change in role of a current 
Executive Director. 
When determining remuneration packages for new Executive Directors, 
the REMCO will seek a balanced outcome which allows Shell to: 
 ■ attract and motivate candidates of the right quality; 
 ■ take into account the individual’s current remuneration package 
and other contractual entitlements; 
 ■ seek a competitive pay position relative to our comparator group, 
without overpaying; 
 ■ encourage relocation if required; and 
 ■ honour entitlements (for example, variable remuneration) of internal 
candidates before their promotion to the Board. The REMCO will 
follow the approach set out in the table below when determining 
the remuneration package for a new Executive Director. 
Performance scenarios
Minimum Target Maximum[A]
Base salary (2020)
Benefits (2019 actual)
Pension (2020 estimate)
Bonus NIL 125% CEO 250% CEO
120% CFO 240% CFO
LTIP NIL 300% CEO 600% CEO
270% CFO 540% CFO
[A] M aximum assuming 50% share price appreciation.
Governance

161
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Recruitment – Remuneration package
Component Approach Maximum
Ongoing remuneration The salary, benefits, annual bonus, long-term incentives and pension benefits will 
be positioned and delivered within the framework of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration policy.
As stated in the “Executive Directors’ 
remuneration policy table”.
Compensation for the forfeiture of any 
awards under variable remuneration 
arrangements
To facilitate external recruitment, one-off compensation in consideration for forfeited 
awards under variable remuneration arrangements entered into with a previous 
employer may be required. The REMCO will use its judgement to determine the 
appropriate level of compensation by matching the value of any lost awards under 
variable remuneration arrangements with the candidate’s previous employer. This 
compensation may take the form of a one-off cash payment or an additional award 
under the LTIP. The compensation can alternatively be based on a newly created 
long-term incentive plan arrangement where the only participant is the new director. 
The intention is that any such compensation would, as far as possible, align to the 
duration and structure of the award being forfeited. 
An amount equal to the value of the 
forfeited variable remuneration awards, 
as assessed by the REMCO. 
Consideration will be given to 
appropriate performance conditions, 
performance periods and clawback 
arrangements.
Replacement of forfeited entitlements 
other than any awards under variable 
remuneration arrangements
There may also be a need to compensate a new Executive Director in respect of 
forfeited entitlements other than any awards under variable remuneration 
arrangements. This could include, for example, pension or contractual entitlements, or 
other benefits. On recruitment, these entitlements may be replicated within the Executive 
Directors’ remuneration policy or valued by the REMCO and compensated in cash. 
In cases of internal promotion to the Board, any commitments made which cannot 
be effectively replaced within the Executive Directors’ remuneration policy may, 
at the REMCO’s discretion, continue to be honoured.
An amount equal to the value of the 
forfeited entitlements, as assessed 
by the REMCO.
Exceptional recruitment incentive Apart from the ongoing annual remuneration package and any compensation in 
respect of the replacement of forfeited entitlements, there may be circumstances in 
which the REMCO needs to offer a one-off recruitment incentive in the form of cash 
or shares to ensure the right external candidate is attracted (e.g. to the industry). The 
REMCO recognises the importance of internal succession planning but it must also have 
the ability to compete for talent with other global companies. The necessity and level 
of this incentive will depend on the individual’s circumstances. The intention will be that 
this is only used in genuinely exceptional circumstances. 
Subject to the limits set out in the 
“Executive Directors’ remuneration 
policy table”.
Pension New appointees will be provided with a pension in line with the wider workforce in 
their base country. For defined benefit members:
 ■ The pensionable salary is capped at executive committee level pay for defined 
benefit purposes (with the exception of participants in the US plan where the bonus 
is removed from the definition of pensionable pay; and
 ■ The member joins an appropriate base country defined contribution mechanism 
in excess of the cap, or exceptionally a pension cash allowance equivalent to 
the defined contribution level is payable in excess of the cap.
In accordance with the pension 
provision applicable to the wider 
workforce in the base country.
Executive Directors’ employment arrangements 
and letters of appointment 
The Dutch Executive Directors are employed for an indefinite period. 
Executive Directors with the Netherlands as their base country will be 
employed on the basis of a contract of employment governed by Dutch 
employment law. For Executive Directors with a base country other than 
the Netherlands, REMCO will determine their employment arrangements 
based on a number of considerations, including Dutch immigration 
requirements and base country retirement benefits. Executive Directors’ 
employment arrangements are available for inspection at the AGM or 
on request. For further details on appointment and re-appointment of 
Directors, see the “Governance Framework” on page 118 and “Other 
Regulatory and Statutory Information” on page 170. 
End of employment 
Notice period 
Employment arrangements of Executive Directors can generally end by 
either the employee or the employer providing one month’s notice, or the 
applicable statutory notice period. For example, under Dutch law, the 
statutory notice period for the employer will vary in line with the length of 
service, with the maximum being four months’ notice. Under Dutch law, 
termination payments are not linked to the contract’s notice period. 
The Netherlands statutory end-of-employment compensation
With effect from July 1, 2015, employment legislation in the Netherlands 
introduced statutory end-of-employment compensation. Under this 
legislation, every termination (other than following retirement or for cause) 
of a Dutch employment contract that has continued for a minimum of two 
years will give rise to an obligation to pay the departing employee 
transition compensation (“transitievergoeding”). The statutory 
compensation is capped at one times the annual salary, which is deemed 
to include variable pay such as the annual bonus. Executive Directors are 
expected not to claim transition compensation or any other applicable 
statutory compensation over and above the agreed compensation for loss 
of office as set out in the “End of employment” table on page 162.
Outstanding entitlements 
In cases of resignation or dismissal for cause, fixed remuneration (base 
salary, benefits, and employer pension contributions) will cease on the 
last day of employment, variable remuneration elements will generally 
lapse and the Executive Director is not eligible for compensation for 
loss of office. 
The information, on page 162, generally applies to termination of 
employment by Shell giving notice, by mutual agreement, or in situations 
where the employment terminates because of retirement with Shell 
consent at a date other than the normal retirement date, redundancy 
or in other similar circumstances at the REMCO’s discretion. 
Governance

162
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY continued
End of employment 
Provision Policy
Compensation for loss of office For Executive Directors appointed between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2016, employment contracts include a cap on 
termination payments of one times annual pay (base salary plus target bonus). Delivery of compensation is mitigated by a 
contractual obligation for the Executive Director to seek alternative employment and Shell’s ability to implement phased 
payment terms.
For Executive Directors appointed on or after January 1, 2017 , the REMCO may offer a termination payment of up to one times base 
salary (target bonus will not be included). However, REMCO may be obligated to pay statutory compensation over and above the 
compensation for loss of office to a departing Executive Director who asserts a statutory claim thereto. Delivery of compensation is 
mitigated by a contractual obligation for the Executive Director to seek alternative employment and Shell’s ability to implement 
phased payment terms.
The provision of standard end-of-employment benefits such as repatriation costs, security provision and outplacement support may 
also be included, as deemed reasonable by the REMCO.
The REMCO may adjust the termination payment for any situation where a full payment is inappropriate, taking into consideration 
applicable law, corporate governance provisions, the applicability of any statutory compensation and the best interests of Shell 
and shareholders as a whole.
Annual bonus Any annual bonus in the year of departure is prorated based on service. Depending on the timing of the departure, the REMCO 
may consider the latest scorecard position or defer payment until the full-year scorecard result is known.
Bonuses delivered in shares represent the bonus which a participant has already earned and carry no further performance 
conditions; therefore, these shares will be unrestricted at the conclusion of the normal deferral or holding period respectively and no 
proration will apply.
LTIP Outstanding awards are prorated on a monthly basis, by reference to the Executive Director’s service within the performance 
period. They will generally survive the end of employment and will remain subject to the same vesting performance conditions, 
and malus and clawback provisions, as if the Executive Director had remained in employment. The three-year holding period will 
also remain in force for any awards made on or after January 1, 2017 . If the participant dies before the end of the performance 
period, the award will vest at the target level on the date of death. In case of death after the end of the performance period, 
the award will vest as described in this Policy.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration policy table
Fee structure Approach to setting fees Other remuneration
Non-executive Directors (NEDs) receive a fixed 
annual fee for their directorship. The size of the fee 
will differ based on the position on the Board: 
Chair of the Board fee or standard Non-executive 
Director fee.
Additional annual fee(s) are payable to any Director 
who serves as Senior Independent Director, a Board 
committee chair, or a Board committee member.
 
A NED receives either a chair or member fee for 
each committee. This means that a chair of a 
committee does not receive both fees.
NEDs receive an additional fee for any Board 
meeting involving intercontinental travel – except 
for one meeting a year held in a location other 
than The Hague.
The Chair’s fee is determined by the 
REMCO. The Board determines the 
fees payable to NEDs. The maximum 
aggregate annual fees will be within 
the limit specified by the Articles of 
Association and in accordance with 
the NEDs’ responsibilities and time 
commitments.
 
The Board reviews NED fees periodically 
to ensure that they are aligned with those 
of other major listed companies.
Business expenses incurred in respect of the performance of their 
duties as a NED will be paid or reimbursed by Shell. Such expenses 
could include transport between home and office and occasional 
business-required partner travel. NEDs may receive a token of 
recognition on retirement from the board. The maximum value for 
this is €300. Where required, the Chair is offered Shell-provided 
accommodation in The Hague. The REMCO has the discretion to 
offer other benefits to the Chair as appropriate to their circumstances. 
Where business expenses or benefits create a personal tax liability 
to the Director, Shell may cover the associated tax. 
The Chair and the other NEDs cannot receive awards under any 
incentive or performance-based remuneration plans, and personal 
loans or guarantees are not granted to them.
 
NEDs do not accrue any retirement benefits as a result of their 
non-executive directorships with Shell.
NEDs are encouraged to hold shares with a value equivalent to 100% 
of their fixed annual fee and maintain that holding during their tenure. 
Governance

163
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment 
NEDs, including the Chair, have letters of appointment. NEDs’ letters 
of appointment are available for inspection at the AGM or on request. 
For further details on appointment and re-appointment of Directors, 
see the “Governance Framework” on page 118 and “Other 
Regulatory and Statutory Information” on page 170.
Non-executive Director recruitment 
The REMCO’s approach to setting the remuneration package for NEDs is 
to offer fee levels and specific benefits (where appropriate) in line with the 
“Non-executive Directors’ remuneration policy table” and subject to the 
Articles of Association. NEDs are not offered variable remuneration or 
retention awards. 
When determining the benefits for a new Chair, the individual 
circumstances of the future Chair will be taken into account. 
Non-executive Director termination of office 
No payments for loss of office will be made to NEDs. 
Consideration of overall pay and employment conditions 
When setting the Policy, no specific employee groups were consulted. 
However, Shell seeks to promote and maintain good relations with 
employee representative bodies as part of its employee engagement 
strategy, and consults on matters affecting employees and business 
performance as required. 
When determining Executive Directors’ remuneration structure and 
outcomes, the REMCO reviews a set of information, including relevant 
reference points and trends, which includes internal data on employee 
remuneration (for example, employee relations matters in respect of 
remuneration and average salary increases applying in the Netherlands, 
UK and the USA). During the Policy review, pay and employment 
conditions of the wider Shell employee population were taken into account 
by adhering to the same performance, rewards and benefits philosophy 
for the Executive Directors, as well as overall benchmarking principles. 
Furthermore, any potential differences from other employees (see 
“Differences for Executive Directors from other employees”) were taken 
into account when providing the REMCO with advice in the formation 
of this Policy. 
Dialogue between management and employees is important, with the 
annual Shell People Survey being one of the principal means of gathering 
employee views on a range of matters. The Shell People Survey includes 
questions inviting employees’ views on their pay and benefit 
arrangements. Shell also encourages share ownership among employees, 
and many are shareholders who are able to participate in the vote on the 
Policy at the AGM.
The REMCO is kept informed by the CEO, the Chief Human Resources & 
Corporate Officer and the Executive Vice President Remuneration and HR 
Operations on the bonus scorecard and any relevant remuneration 
matters affecting other senior executives, extending to multiple levels 
below the Board and Executive Committee. 
Consideration of shareholder views
The REMCO engages with major shareholders on a regular basis 
throughout the year and this allows it to hear views on Shell’s 
remuneration approach and test proposals when developing or evolving 
the Policy. Recent examples of the REMCO responding to shareholder 
views include: considering the quantum of executive pay and the use of 
alternative reward structures; introducing the Energy Transition metric 
to the LTIP in line with our strategic ambitions; removing the individual 
performance modifier from the calculation of annual bonus outcomes 
to make remuneration structures simpler and more transparent to 
shareholders; reducing the CEO’s target bonus from 150% to 125%; 
reducing the CEO’s LTIP grant; and enabling the broader use of 
discretion to manage remuneration outcomes.
The REMCO will review the Policy regularly to ensure it continues to 
reinforce Shell’s long-term strategy and remains closely aligned 
with shareholders’ interests. 
Additional policy statement 
The REMCO reserves the right to make payments outside the Policy 
in limited exceptional circumstances, such as for regulatory, tax or 
administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation 
or exchange controls, and only where the REMCO considers such 
payments are necessary to give effect to the intent of the Policy. 
Signed on behalf of the Board
/s/ Linda M. Coulter
LINDA M. COULTER
Company Secretary
March 11, 2020
Governance

164
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
OTHER REGULATORY AND STATUTORY INFORMATION 
This section of the Annual Report contains the remaining information which the Directors are required to report on each year and for the year 
ended December 31, 2019. There are other matters that are required to be reported on and that have been disclosed in other sections of the 
Annual Report, as summarised below:
Management Report This Directors’ Report, together with the Strategic Report, serves as the Management 
Report for the purpose of Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.8R.
Both the Directors’ Report and Strategic Report have been presented in accordance 
with and reliance on English law, and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with 
those reports shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Directors’ Report: pages 113-163
Strategic Report: pages 6-101
Corporate governance The Company’s statement on corporate governance, as required by DTR7 .2.3R, is 
incorporated in this Directors’ Report by way of reference.
Directors’ Report: pages 104-171
Business relationships [A] A statement, summarising the Directors’ business relationships with suppliers, 
customers and others.
Strategic Report: pages 6-101
Employee engagement Information on how the Directors have engaged with employees.
Directors’ interests [B] The interests (in shares of the Company or calculated equivalents) of the Directors 
in office at the end of the year, including any interests of a “connected person”.
Changes in Directors’ share interests during the period from December 31, 2019, 
to March 11, 2020.
Annual Report on Remuneration: 
pages 148
Likely future developments Information relating to likely future developments. Provided throughout the Strategic 
Report: pages 6-101
Research and development Information relating to Shell’s research and development, including expenditure. Shell Story: pages 12-18
Diversity and inclusion Information concerning diversity and inclusion.
This includes information on the equal opportunities in recruitment, career development, 
promotion, training and rewards for all our people, including those with disabilities.
Our people: pages 99-101
Employee communication and 
involvement
Information concerning employee communication and involvement. Our people: pages 99-101
Corporate social responsibility A summary of Shell’s approach to corporate social responsibility.
Further details will be available in the Shell Sustainability Report 2019.
Environment and society: pages 84-90
Our people: pages 99-101
Branches A list of our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Our activities and interests are operated through subsidiaries, branches of subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates which are subject to the laws and regulations of many 
different jurisdictions.
Additional Information, Appendix 1: 
pages 282-306
Greenhouse gas emissions Information relating to greenhouse gas emissions. Climate change and energy transition: 
pages 84-98
Risk management Detail on risk factors
Information on emerging risks 
pages 27-36 of the Strategic Report
Other regulatory and statutory 
information: pages 164-171
Financial risk management, 
objectives and policies
Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and Shell’s financial risk management 
objectives and policies, and exposure to market risk (including price risk), credit risk 
and liquidity risk.
Consolidated Financial Statements: 
Note 19, pages 227-231
Listing rule information [C] Information concerning the amount of interest capitalised by Shell. Consolidated Financial Statements: 
Note 6, page 209
Listing rule information [C] The Remuneration Committee Report Directors’ Remuneration Report: 
pages 135-163
Listing rule information [C] Details of the Company’s long-term incentive schemes as required by LR 9.4.3R Directors’ Remuneration Report: 
pages 135-163
Significant shareholdings Information concerning significant shareholdings. Additional information: 
page 274-275
[A] T his meets the purposes of Schedule 7 to The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018.
[B]
 “
Connected person” has the meaning given to “person closely associated” within the Market Abuse Regulation.
[C]
 T
his information is given in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4R. Further information in connection with Listing Rule 9.8.4R is contained in the remainder of “Other Statutory Information” 
which follows on pages 165-171.
Governance

165
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
In accordance with section 418 of the Act, each of the persons who is a 
Director at the date of approval of this Report confirms that, so far as the 
Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware. The Director has taken all steps that he or 
she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, DIVIDENDS AND 
DIVIDEND POLICY
The “Consolidated Statement of Income” and “Consolidated Balance 
Sheet” can be found on pages 191 and 192 respectively.
The Board aims to grow the dividend per share through time in line with its 
view of the underlying business earnings and cash flow of the Shell group. 
When setting dividends, the Board looks at a range of factors, including 
the macro-environment and the Company’s current balance sheet, future 
investment plans and existing commitments. In addition, the Board could 
choose to return cash through share buybacks, subject to the capital 
requirements of the Shell group.
The Board is aware of a consultation undertaken in 2019 by the 
Investment Association on behalf of BEIS to review the practice of 
shareholder distributions being made that have not been voted on 
by shareholders. The Board will consider the outcome of this review 
once it is published.
Interim dividends are currently declared by the Board and paid on a 
quarterly basis. Shell does not currently pay a “final” dividend, which 
would need to be voted on by shareholders, requiring the introduction 
of a resolution at the AGM. This would delay the payment of the fourth 
quarter dividend (currently paid in late March) until after the AGM, which 
is towards the end of May, a delay of around seven weeks. Our approach 
to dividend payments is not uncommon for companies distributing returns 
to shareholders on a quarterly basis.
On December 18, 2019, Shell announced the introduction of US dollar 
as additional currency election for the payment of dividends, alongside 
euro and sterling, and highlighted that its dividend will be settled with its 
shareholders fully electronically either in CREST or via interbank transfers.
The Directors have announced a fourth-quarter interim dividend as set 
out in the table below, payable on March 23, 2020, to shareholders 
on the Register of Members at close of business on February 14, 2020. 
The closing date for dividend currency elections was February 28,  
2020 [A] and the euro and sterling equivalents announcement date 
was March 9, 2020.
[A] A d ifferent dividend currency election date may apply to shareholders holding shares in a 
securities account with a bank or financial institution ultimately through Euroclear Nederland. 
This may also apply to other shareholders who do not hold their shares either directly on the 
Register of Members or in the corporate sponsored nominee arrangement. Such shareholders 
can contact their broker, financial intermediary, bank or financial institution for the election 
deadline that applies.
VIABILITY STATEMENT
The “Strategic Report” includes information about Shell’s strategy, 
financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, as well as the factors, 
including the principal risks, likely to affect Shell’s future development. 
“Shell story” describes Shell’s business model, including competitive 
advantages and key strengths. The Directors assess Shell’s prospects 
at both an operating and strategic level, each involving different time 
horizons. To this end, the Directors assess Shell’s portfolio and strategy 
against a wide range of outlooks, including assessing the potential 
impacts of various possible energy transition pathways and scenarios 
for changes in societal expectations in relation to climate change. Shell 
recognises in its strategy that the world is transitioning to a lower-carbon 
energy system (see “Climate change and energy transition”). The Risk 
Factors section provides an overview of the principal risks Shell is 
exposed to in its operations.
On an annual basis, the Directors approve a detailed three-year 
operating plan, which forecasts Shell’s cash flows and ability to service 
financing requirements, pay dividends and fund investing activities during 
the period. Shell’s three-year operating plan includes assumptions in 
relation to internal and external parameters. Some of the key assumptions 
include the impact of commodity prices, exchange rates, future carbon 
costs, agreements like LNG contract renewals, and schedules of growth 
programmes. Considering the degree of change possible in these 
parameters, Shell has deemed a three-year period of assessment 
appropriate for the longer-term viability statement.
Dividends
2019
A shares B shares [A] A ADSs B ADSs
$ € pence $ pence € $ $
Q1 0.47 0.42 36. 97 0.47 36.97 0.42 0.94 0.94
Q2 0.47 0.43 38. 0 1 0.47 38.01 0.43 0.94 0.94
Q3 0.47 0.42 35. 73 0.47 35.73 0.42 0.94 0.94
Q4 [A] 0.47 0.42 36. 40 0.47 36.40 0.42 0.94 0.94
Total announced in respect of the year [A] 1.88 1.68 147 . 1 1 1.88 147 . 1 1 1.68 3.76 3.76
Amount paid during the year [A] 1.88 1.68 146.65 1.88 146.65 1.68 3.76 3.76
[A] I t is expected that holders of B shares will receive dividends through the dividend access mechanism applicable to such shares. The dividend access mechanism is described more fully on page 268.
Governance

166
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
In making the viability assessment, the Directors have also considered the 
financial impact of each of the following severe but possible scenarios that 
could threaten Shell’s viability. In reviewing these stress tests, the Directors 
have considered possible mitigation steps and have made certain 
assumptions regarding the availability of future funding options, including 
credit lines and debt facilities, possible assets disposals, and the ability to 
flex the levels of shareholder returns and to raise future financing in line 
with the operating plan window.
Scenario Link to principal risks
A significant HSSE event [A]
A low oil and gas price environment 
with $40/bbl Brent (nominal prices) 
over the three year planning period
[B]
A significant HSSE event in a low oil 
and gas price environment
[A] and [B]
Sustained impact from politically 
adverse developments, lower growth 
in developing countries, as well as 
lower growth in Europe
[B] and [C]
Unplanned shut down of a major cash 
generating asset for a year
[A]
[A] T he nature of our operations exposes us, and the communities in which we work, to a wide 
range of health, safety, (cyber) security and environment risks.
[B]
 W
e are exposed to macro-economic risks including fluctuating prices of crude oil, natural gas, 
oil products and chemicals.
[C]
 W
e are exposed to treasury and trading risks, including liquidity risk, interest rate risk, 
foreign exchange risk and credit risk. We are affected by the global macroeconomic 
environment as well as financial and commodity market conditions.
Taking account of Shell’s position and principal risks at December 31, 
2019, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Shell will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over its three-year operating plan period. 
NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT
The Non-Financial Information Statement below forms part of the 
Strategic Report on pages 6-101.
Non-Financial Information Statement
Reporting requirement Where to read more in this report Page
Business model The Shell Story 16
Non-financial KPIs Performance indicators 42
Environmental matters Environment and society, Climate 
change and energy transition
84-98
Employees Our people and Directors Report 99-101
Social matters Environment and society 84-90
Respect for human rights Environment and society 90
Anti-corruption and 
anti-bribery matters
Our people 99-101
REPURCHASES OF SHARES
The Group announced, on July 26, 2018, the start of a share buyback 
programme of at least $25 billion by the end of 2020 subject to further 
progress with debt reduction and oil price conditions. At the 2019 AGM, 
shareholders granted an authority for the Company to repurchase up to 
a maximum of 815 million of its shares (excluding purchases for employee 
share plans). This authority expires on the earlier of the close of business 
on August 21, 2020, or the end of the 2020 AGM.
During 2019, 320.1 million A shares, and 16.1 million B shares, with 
nominal values of €23.6 million ($28.4 million) respectively (4.27% of 
the Company’s total issued share capital at December 31, 2019) were 
purchased and cancelled for a total cost of $10.2 billion including 
expenses, at an average price of $30.25 per share. The purpose of the 
shares repurchased in 2019 under the share buyback programme is to 
reduce the issued share capital of the Company. This is to offset the 
number of shares issued under the Scrip Dividend Programme and to 
significantly reduce the equity issued in connection with the Company’s 
combination with BG Group. The Scrip Dividend Programme was 
cancelled with effect from the fourth quarter 2017 interim dividend. More 
information can be found at www.shell.com/scrip. From January 1, 2020, 
to January 24, 2020, the end of the sixth tranche of the share buyback 
programme, a further 23.2 million A shares (0.29% of the Company’s 
total issued share capital at December 31, 2019) were purchased for 
cancellation for a total cost of $0.7 billion including expenses, at an 
average price of $29.63 per share. This means that 624 million shares 
could still be repurchased under the current AGM authority.
The Board continues to regard the ability to repurchase issued shares 
in suitable circumstances as an important part of Shell’s financial 
management. A resolution will be proposed at the 2020 AGM to renew 
the authority for the Company to purchase its own share capital, up 
to specified limits, for a further year. This proposal will be described 
in more detail in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The names of the Directors that held office during the year can be 
found on pages 104-112. Information on the Directors who are seeking 
appointment or reappointment is included in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting.
QUALIFYING THIRD-PARTY INDEMNITIES
The Company has entered into a Deed of Indemnity (Deed) with each 
Director of the Company who served during the year. The terms of each 
of these Deeds are identical and they reflect the statutory provisions on 
indemnities contained in the Companies Act 2006 (CA 2006). Under the 
terms of each Deed, the Company has agreed to indemnify the Director, 
to the widest extent permitted by the CA 2006, against any loss, liability 
or damage, howsoever caused (including in respect of a Director’s own 
negligence), suffered or incurred by a Director in respect of their acts or 
omissions while or in the course of acting as a Director or employee of the 
Company, any associated company or affiliate (within the meaning of 
the CA 2006). In addition, the Company shall lend funds to Directors 
as required to meet reasonable costs and expenses incurred or to be 
incurred by them in defending any criminal or civil proceedings brought 
against them in their capacity as a Director or employee of the Company, 
associated company or affiliate, or, in connection with certain applications 
brought under the CA 2006. The provisions in the Company’s Articles 
relating to arbitration and exclusive jurisdiction are incorporated, mutatis 
mutandis, into the Deeds entered into by each Director and the Company.
OTHER REGULATORY AND STATUTORY INFORMATION continued
Governance

167
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Other than disclosures given in Notes 9, 27 and 29 to the “Consolidated 
Financial Statements” on pages 213, 237 , and 238, there were no 
transactions or proposed transactions that were material to either the 
Company or any related party. Nor were there any transactions with 
any related party that were unusual in their nature or conditions.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
No donations were made by the Company or any of its subsidiaries to 
political parties or organisations during the year. Shell Oil Company 
administers the non-partisan Shell Oil Company Employees’ Political 
Awareness Committee (SEPAC), a political action committee registered 
with the US Federal Election Commission. Eligible employees may make 
voluntary personal contributions to the SEPAC.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND POST-BALANCE 
SHEET EVENTS
See Note 29 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on page 238.
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company’s issued share capital at December 31, 2019, is set out in 
Note 20 to the “Parent Company Financial Statements” on pages 
257-265. The percentage of the total issued share capital represented by 
each class of share is given below.
Share capital percentage
Share class %
A 52.68
B 47. 3 2
Sterling deferred de minimis
TRANSFER OF SECURITIES
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of the 
ordinary shares other than under the Articles, under restrictions imposed 
by law or regulation (for example, insider trading laws) or pursuant to 
the Company’s Share Dealing Code. 
SHARE OWNERSHIP TRUSTS AND TRUST-LIKE ENTITIES
Shell has three primary employee share ownership trusts and trust-like 
entities: a Dutch foundation (stichting) and two US Rabbi Trusts. The shares 
held by the Dutch foundation are voted by its Board and the shares in the 
US Rabbi Trusts are voted by the Voting Trustee, Newport Trust Company. 
Both the Board of the Dutch foundation and the Voting Trustee are 
independent of Shell.
The UK Shell All Employee Share Ownership Plan has a separate related 
share ownership trust. Shares held by the trust are voted by its trustee, 
Computershare Trustees Limited, as directed by the participants.
AUDITOR
A resolution relating to the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor 
for the financial year 2020 will be proposed at the 2020 AGM.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The AGM will be held on May 19, 2020, at the Circustheater, Circusstraat 
4, 2586 CW, The Hague, the Netherlands. The Notice of Annual General 
Meeting will include details of the business to be put to shareholders at 
the AGM.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
In accordance with the Act and the Articles, the Board may authorise any 
matter that otherwise may involve any of the Directors breaching their 
duty to avoid conflicts of interest. The Board has adopted a procedure 
to address these requirements. Detailed conflict of interest questionnaires 
are reviewed by the Board and, if considered appropriate, authorised. 
Conflicts of interest as well as any gifts and hospitality received by 
and provided by Directors are kept under review by the Board. Further 
information relating to conflicts of interest can be found in the Articles, 
available on the website.
SIGNIFICANT COMMITMENTS OF THE CHAIR
The Chair’s other significant commitments are given in his biography on 
page 104.
SHELL GENERAL BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
The Shell General Business Principles define how Shell subsidiaries are 
expected to conduct their affairs and are underpinned by the Shell core 
values of honesty, integrity and respect for people. These principles 
include, among other things, Shell’s commitment to support fundamental 
human rights in line with the legitimate role of business and to contribute 
to sustainable development. They are designed to mitigate the risk of 
damage to our business reputation and to prevent violations of local and 
international legislation. They can be found at www.shell.com/sgbp. 
See “Risk factors” on page 27-36.
SHELL CODE OF CONDUCT
Directors, officers, employees and contract staff are required to comply 
with the Shell Code of Conduct, which instructs them on how to behave 
in line with the Shell General Business Principles. This Code clarifies the 
basic rules and standards they are expected to follow and the behaviour 
expected of them. These individuals must also complete mandatory 
Code of Conduct training.
Designated individuals are required to complete additional mandatory 
training on antitrust and competition laws, anti-bribery, anti-corruption 
and anti-money laundering laws, financial crime, data protection laws 
and trade compliance requirements (see “Risk factors” on page 35). The 
Shell Code of Conduct can be found at www.shell.com/codeofconduct.
CODE OF ETHICS
Executive Directors and Senior Financial Officers of Shell must also 
comply with the Code of Ethics. This Code is specifically intended to meet 
the requirements of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. It can be 
found at www.shell.com/codeofethics.
Governance

168
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
CONTROL FRAMEWORK
Code of 
conduct
Standards  
and Manuals
Strategy, 
planning and 
appraisal
Controls and 
assurance
Shell General Business Principles
RDS plc and Other Legal entities
External environment
Statement 
on Risk 
Management
Businesses and functions
  The F oundation  elements of the Shell Control Framework define the 
principles that underpin the Shell Group’s activities.
   The M anagement processes  defines activities critical to an effective 
control framework.
  The St ructural  component defines how Businesses and Functions 
facilitate achievement of the Shell group’s overall business objectives, 
while respecting the separate legal identity of the Individual Shell 
companies that implement them.
The Audit Committee met six times this year and received regular reports 
from the Chief Internal Auditor on notable internal audits and those with 
a significant impact on control effectiveness. The Audit Committee also 
reviewed significant financial, business and compliance control incidents 
and received regular reports on business integrity issues. The Audit 
Committee also requested updates on specific financial, operational and 
compliance control issues throughout the year. The Audit Committee Chair 
provided an update to the Board after every Audit Committee meeting.
During and after such reports, the Board has an opportunity to request 
further information and/or ask clarifying questions, which it does to 
varying degrees depending on the issue. Similarly, the Chairs of the 
Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee (SESCo) and the 
Nigeria Special Litigation Committee, an ad hoc Board Committee, 
also provide regular updates after each of their respective meetings 
covering, among other matters, the respective aspects of controls that they 
monitor pursuant to their Terms of Reference. The Audit Committee and 
SESCo minutes, once approved, are further provided to the Board and 
incorporated into Board minutes to ensure full access to and review by 
INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL ADVICE
All Directors may seek independent professional advice in connection 
with their role as a Director. All Directors have access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary. The Company has provided both 
indemnities and directors’ and officers’ insurance to the Directors in 
connection with the performance of their responsibilities. Copies of these 
indemnities and the directors’ and officers’ insurance policies are open 
to inspection. A copy of the form of these indemnities has been previously 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
RESULTS PRESENTATIONS AND ANALYSTS’ MEETINGS
The planned dates of the quarterly, half-yearly and annual results 
presentations, as well as all major analysts’ meetings, are announced 
in advance on the Shell website and through a regulatory release. 
Generally, presentations are broadcast live via webcast and 
teleconference. Other meetings with analysts or investors are not normally 
announced in advance, nor can they be followed remotely by webcast or 
any other means. Procedures are in place to ensure that discussions in 
such meetings are always limited to non-material information or 
information already in the public domain.
Results and meeting presentations can be found at www.shell.com/
investor. This is in line with the requirement to ensure that all 
shareholders and other parties in the financial market have equal 
and simultaneous access to information that may influence the 
price of the Company’s securities.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of risk 
management and internal control, and for regularly reviewing its 
effectiveness. It has delegated authority to the Audit Committee to assist 
it in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to internal control and financial 
reporting (see “Audit Committee Report” on pages 129-134).
A single overall control framework is in place for the Company and its 
subsidiaries that is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives. It therefore only provides a 
reasonable and not an absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The diagram below illustrates the Control Framework’s key components: 
“Foundations”, “Management processes” and “Structural”. “Foundations” 
comprises the objectives, principles and rules that underpin and establish 
boundaries for Shell activities. “Management processes” refers to the 
more significant management processes, including how strategy, planning 
and appraisal are used to improve performance and how risks are to be 
managed through effective controls and assurance. The “Structural” 
component defines how Businesses and Functions facilitate achievement 
of the Shell group’s overall business objectives. 
OTHER REGULATORY AND STATUTORY INFORMATION continued
Governance

169
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
all Directors. These aspects, together with the 2019 Reports respectively 
submitted to the Board by the Chief Internal Auditor, the External Auditors, 
the Disclosure Committee Chairman and the Chief Ethics & Compliance 
Officer, as well as summaries of the Annual Proved Reserves Disclosure 
and the Full Year HSSE & Social Performance Assurance Report, enable 
the Board’s ongoing monitoring and annual review of material controls.
An annual review of the effectiveness of risk management and internal 
control was carried out by both the Executive Committee and the Audit 
Committee. This was based on their own insights and experience 
throughout the year as well as outcomes from the Group Assurance Letter 
process, a structured internal assessment of compliance with legal and 
ethical requirements and the Shell Control Framework carried out by 
each Executive Director. As part of their annual review, the Executive 
Committee and Audit Committee also considered annual reports from the 
Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer and the External 
Auditor. The insights and conclusions from this annual assessment were 
reviewed and discussed by the Board. 
The system of risk management and internal control over financial 
reporting is an integral part of the Control Framework. Regular reviews 
are performed to identify the significant risks to financial reporting 
and the key controls designed to address them. These controls are 
documented, responsibility is assigned, and they are monitored for 
design and operating effectiveness. Controls found to be ineffective 
are remediated. The principal risks faced by Shell are set out in “Risk 
factors” on pages 27-36.
Shell has a variety of processes for obtaining assurance on the adequacy 
of risk management and internal control. Emerging risks are identified 
through (among others) the monitoring of external developments, risk 
indicators, learnings from incidents and assurance findings, and through 
the appraisal of Shell’s forward-looking plans. A broad array of measures 
are used to manage Shell’s various risks which are set out in the relevant 
sections of this Report. There are also risks that Shell accepts or does not 
seek to fully mitigate. The Executive Committee and the Board regularly 
consider group-level risks and associated control mechanisms.
Shell has developed a risk appetite framework that considers three distinct 
factors: Strategic Risk Appetite, Operational Risk Appetite and Conduct 
Risk Appetite. These three factors aim to capture the range and variety of 
risks affecting Shell, with specific risk appetite parameters identified and 
monitored for each one.
Strategic Risk Appetite is about current and future portfolio considerations, 
examining parameters such as country concentration or exposure to 
higher-risk countries. It also considers “long-range” developments in order 
to test key assumptions or beliefs in relation to energy markets. 
Operational Risk Appetite is about material operational exposures, and 
promotes a more granular assessment of key risks facing the organisation. 
Conduct Risk Appetite brings together leading and lagging risk indicators 
to provide an overall view of the culture of the organisation.
The Financial Framework sets certain boundary conditions in the 
consideration of risk appetite, as the financial resilience of Shell should 
logically inform the aggregate level of risk appetite that could 
be sustained.
Shell has a climate change risk management structure which is supported 
by standards, policies and controls (see “Risk factors” on page 34 and 
“Climate change and energy transition” on pages 91-98). Climate change 
and risks resulting from greenhouse gas emissions have been identified as 
significant risk factors for Shell and are managed in accordance with other 
significant risks through the Board and Executive Committee.
Many of our major projects and operations are conducted in joint 
arrangements or associates, which may reduce the degree of control 
and ability to identify and manage risks (see “Risk factors” on page 
27-36). In each case, Shell appoints a representative to manage its 
interests who seeks to ensure that such projects operate under 
equivalent standards to Shell.
We operate in more than 70 countries that have differing degrees 
of political, legal and fiscal stability. This exposes us to a wide range of 
political developments that could result in changes to contractual terms, 
laws and regulations. In addition, we and our joint arrangements and 
associates face the risk of litigation and disputes worldwide (see 
“Risk factors” on page 27-36). We continuously monitor geopolitical 
developments and societal issues relevant to our interests. Employees 
who engage with government officials are subject to specific training 
programmes, procedures and regular communications, in addition to 
Shell General Business Principles and Shell Code of Conduct compliance. 
We are prepared to exit a country if we believe we can no longer operate 
in that country in accordance with our standards and applicable law, 
and we have done so in the past.
The Board confirms that there is a robust process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the principal risks. Further, the Board confirms 
it carries out a robust assessment of Shell’s emerging risks, the procedures 
in place to identify the emerging risks, and how the risks are being 
managed or mitigated to the achievement of Shell’s objectives. This has 
been in place throughout 2019 and up to the date of this Report and 
is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the FRC Guidance 
on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and 
Business Reporting. 
The Board has conducted its annual review of the effectiveness of Shell’s 
system of risk management and internal control in respect of 2019, such 
review covering all material controls, including financial, operational and 
compliance controls. 
MANAGEMENT’S EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE 
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES OF SHELL
Shell’s CEO and CFO have evaluated the effectiveness of Shell’s 
disclosure controls and procedures at December 31, 2019. Based on 
that evaluation, they concluded that Shell’s disclosure controls and 
procedures are effective.
Governance

170
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL 
OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING OF SHELL
Management, including the CEO and CFO, is responsible for establishing 
and maintaining adequate internal control over Shell’s financial reporting 
and the preparation of the “Consolidated Financial Statements”. It 
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of Shell’s internal control 
over financial reporting and the preparation of the “Consolidated 
Financial Statements” based on the Internal Control – Integrated 
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations 
of the Treadway Commission (COSO). On the basis of this evaluation, 
management concluded that, at December 31, 2019, the Company’s 
internal control over financial reporting and the preparation of the 
“Consolidated Financial Statements” was effective.
THE TRUSTEE’S AND MANAGEMENT’S EVALUATION 
OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES FOR 
THE ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST
The Trustee of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust (the Trustee) 
and Shell’s CEO and CFO have evaluated the effectiveness of the 
disclosure controls and procedures in respect of the Dividend Access 
Trust (the Trust) at December 31, 2019. On the basis of this evaluation, 
these officers have concluded that the disclosure controls and 
procedures of the Trust are effective.
THE TRUSTEE’S AND MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON 
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
OF THE ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST
The Trustee and the Company’s management are responsible for 
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over the Trust’s 
financial reporting. The Trustee and the Company’s management 
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over 
financial reporting based on the Internal Control – Integrated Framework 
(2013) issued by COSO. On the basis of this evaluation, the Trustee and 
management concluded that, at December 31, 2019, the Trust’s internal 
control over financial reporting was effective.
CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER 
FINANCIAL REPORTING
There has not been any change in the internal control over financial 
reporting of Shell or the Trust that occurred during the period covered by 
this Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially 
affect, the internal control over financial reporting of Shell or the Trust. 
Material financial information of the Trust is included in the “Consolidated 
Financial Statements” and is therefore subject to the same disclosure 
controls and procedures as Shell. See the “Royal Dutch Shell 
Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements” on pages 268 
for additional information.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The Company’s Articles of Association (Articles) were adopted at the 
2019 AGM. The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution 
of the shareholders in a general meeting. A full version of the Company’s 
Articles can be found at www.shell.com/investors.
MANAGEMENT AND DIRECTORS
The Company has a single-tier Board of Directors headed by a Chair, 
with management led by a CEO. See “Governance Framework” on 
pages 117-118.
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING QUALIFICATION
The Directors are not required to hold any shares in the Company. While 
the Articles do not require Directors to hold shares in the Company, the 
Remuneration Committee believes that Executive Directors should align 
their interests with those of shareholders by holding shares in the 
Company. The CEO is expected to build up a shareholding of seven times 
his base salary over five years from appointment and from 2020, the CFO 
is expected to build up a shareholding of five times their base salary over 
the same period. In the event that another Executive Director joins the 
Board, the Remuneration Committee will determine their shareholding 
requirement, which will not be less than 200% of their base salary. 
Executive Directors will be required to maintain their requirement (or 
existing shareholding if less than the guideline) for a period of two years 
post-employment. Non-executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares 
with a value equivalent to 100% of their fixed annual fee and maintain 
that holding during their tenure. All Directors hold shares and such 
interests can be found in the “Directors’ Remuneration Report” 
on pages 135-138.
APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS
The Company’s Articles, the Corporate Governance Code and the 
Companies Act 2006 govern the appointment and retirement of 
Directors. Board membership and biographical details of the Directors 
are provided on pages 104-109. However, Directors follow the direction 
laid out in the Code and stand for re-election annually.
During the year, Neil Carson was appointed to the Board on June 1, 2019.
RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES
The full rights attaching to shares are set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association. The Company can issue shares with any rights or restrictions 
attached to them as long as this is not restricted by any rights attached to 
existing shares. These rights or restrictions can be decided either by an 
ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders or by the Board as long 
as there is no conflict with any resolution passed by the shareholders.
VOTING
Currently, only the A and B shares have voting rights. The voting rights of 
each A share and each B share are equal and carry one vote at a general 
meeting of the Company.
The sterling deferred shares are not ordinary shares and therefore have 
different rights and restrictions attached to them.
OTHER REGULATORY AND STATUTORY INFORMATION continued
Governance

171
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
CHANGE OF CONTROL
There are no provisions in the Articles that would delay, defer or prevent 
a change of control.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE 
PREPARATION OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including 
the financial statements, in accordance with applicable laws and 
regulations. These require the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. As such, the Directors have prepared the 
Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted 
by the European Union (EU). In preparing these financial statements, 
the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The Directors must 
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Shell and the Company 
and of the profit or loss of Shell and the Company for that period. In 
preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
 ■ adopt the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so;
 ■ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 ■ make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and 
 ■ state whether IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the 
IASB have been followed. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of Shell and the 
Company and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the 
financial position of Shell and the Company and to enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 (the 
Act) and, as regards the Consolidated Financial Statements, with Article 
4 of the IAS Regulation and therefore are in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the EU. The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of Shell and the Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions can be found on 
pages 111-112, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
 ■ the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted by the EU and with IFRS as issued by the IASB 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit of Shell and the Company; and
 ■ the Management Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of Shell, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
Furthermore, so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the auditors are unaware, and each of the 
Directors has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken in order 
to become aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report, including the financial 
statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Shell’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Shell website (www.shell.com). Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Signed on behalf of the Board
/s/ Linda M. Coulter
LINDA M. COULTER
Company Secretary 
March 11, 2020 
Governance

172
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
174  I ndependent Auditor’s Report related to 
the Consolidated and Parent Company 
Financial Statements
190 
 C
onsolidated Financial Statements
239 
 S
upplementary information – oil and gas 
(unaudited)
257 
 P
arent Company Financial Statements
266 
 I
ndependent Auditor’s Report to 
Computershare Trustees of the Royal Dutch 
Shell Dividend Access Trust and the Board 
of Directors of Royal Dutch Shell plc
268
 
 R
oyal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust 
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 
AND 
SUPPLEMENTS
Financial Statements

173
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Financial Statements

174
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS 
OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC
1. OUR OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT
1.1 Our unmodified opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion, the financial statements of Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Parent Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively, Shell):
 ■ give a true and fair view of the state of Shell’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at December 31, 2019, and of Shell’s and the Parent Company’s 
income for the year then ended;
 ■ have been properly prepared both in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU) 
and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB); and 
 ■ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards Shell’s financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
1.2 What we have audited
We have audited Royal Dutch Shell plc’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2019, which are included in the Annual Report 
and comprise:
Shell Parent Company
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2019
Consolidated Statement of Income for the year then ended
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended
Related Notes 1 to 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including 
a summary of significant accounting policies
Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2019
Statement of Income for the year then ended
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended
Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended
Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended
Related Notes 1 to 14 to the Parent Company Financial Statements 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and both IFRS as adopted 
by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB. 
2. BASIS FOR OUR OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISA (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ section of our report below. We are 
independent of Shell and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements 
in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained during the planning, execution and conclusion of our audit is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a suitable basis for our opinion.
Financial Statements

175
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
3. OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH
UPDATING OUR 
UNDERSTANDING OF 
SHELL’S BUSINESS AND 
ITS ENVIRONMENT
Our global audit team has deep industry experience through working for many years on the audits of large integrated 
international oil and gas companies. Our audit planning starts with updating our view on external market factors, for example 
geopolitical risk, the potential impact of climate change and the energy transition, commodity price risk and major trends in the 
industry. Building on this knowledge, we updated our understanding of Shell’s strategy and business model. This was achieved 
through the review of external data, enquiry, analytical procedures, observation and visiting several of Shell’s operating units.
In planning our 2019 audit, we were mindful of the fact that the outlook for both oil and gas commodity prices continued to 
narrow. Refining margins remained under pressure due to a number of factors, including the energy transition. The fundamentals 
of cost control, capital spending, operational excellence, cash flow and capital return continued to be a focus in the industry. 
Climate change and the energy transition are becoming increasingly important for the sector. As part of our audit, we assessed 
whether Shell’s energy transition assumptions used in setting oil and gas commodity price assumptions and refining margin 
assumptions were reasonable in the light of the commitments that Shell have made with respect to decarbonisation in 
accordance with the Paris Agreement. Our updated understanding of Shell’s business and the environment in which it 
operates informed our risk assessment procedures.
IDENTIFYING 
AND ASSESSING THE 
RISKS OF MATERIAL 
MISSTATEMENT
The results of our 2018 audit, together with our risk assessment procedures, provided a renewed basis for the identification and 
assessment of risks of material misstatement for our 2019 audit. Whilst our assessment of risks requiring special audit attention 
remained consistent with 2018, the impact of the energy transition has increased the inherent risk in estimating both oil and gas 
reserves and the recoverable amount of oil and gas properties. The risks we identified were as follows:
 ■ the estimation of oil and gas reserves used in the calculation of the recoverable amount of exploration and production 
assets, depreciation, depletion and amortisation and the estimation of decommissioning and restoration provisions;
 ■ the risk of unrealised trading gains and losses being recognised as a result of errors, unauthorised trading activity or 
deliberate misstatement of Shell’s trading position; and
 ■ risk of fraud through management override within other significant revenue streams.
Our additional areas of audit focus were:
 ■ the recoverable amount of exploration and production assets, and investments in joint ventures and associates;
 ■ the impact of the energy transition on the estimation of refining margins and their potential impact on the carrying value 
of Shell’s refineries, the expected lives of the refineries, whether there is a need for environmental clean up cost provisions 
and the valuation of deferred tax assets;
 ■ the estimation of decommissioning and restoration provisions;
 ■ legal proceedings and other contingencies, with specific emphasis on Nigeria;
 ■ uncertain tax positions; 
 ■ recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets; 
 ■ pension assumptions; 
 ■ the adoption of the new accounting standard on leases (IFRS 16); and
 ■ the dividend distribution process, including the determination of realised profits and losses for the purposes of making 
distributions under the Companies Act 2006 (this area of audit focus relates to the parent company only).
We have expanded further our integration of analytical tools and technology into our audit. Not only do these tools deliver 
to us more efficient and secure access to Shell’s data, but they provide us with an integrated view of risk, thus enabling us to 
focus our audit effort on operating units with higher risk profiles. They also enable us to perform risk-led analyses of entire 
populations of data.
ASSESSING MATERIALITY 
(SECTION 4)
When we established our audit strategy, we determined overall materiality for the financial statements. The key criterion 
in determining materiality is the auditor’s perception of the needs of investors. We considered which earnings, activity or 
capital-based measure aligned best with the expectations of those charged with governance at Shell and users of Shell’s 
financial statements. In so doing, we applied a ‘reasonable investor perspective’, which reflected our understanding of the 
common financial information needs of the members of Shell as a group. We also made judgements about the size of 
misstatements that would be considered material.
Our assessment of overall materiality was derived from an average of Shell’s earnings for the prior two years and the 
estimated result for the current year on a current cost of supplies basis (CCS earnings), excluding identified items reported 
by Shell in its quarterly results announcements, and adjusted for an effective tax rate. In our judgement, an averaging 
approach reflects the nature of Shell, the oil and gas industry and the economic environment in which Shell operates.
This approach – which is unchanged from 2018 – resulted in the following materiality measures for 2019:
 ■ planning materiality: $1,200 million (2018: $1,000 million);
 ■ performance materiality: $900 million (2018: $750 million); and
 ■ reporting differences threshold: $60 million (2018: $50 million).
Our determination of performance materiality was underpinned by our assessment of the strength of Shell’s control 
environment. We confirmed with the Audit Committee that they were satisfied that these levels of materiality were 
appropriate. We kept our assessment of materiality under review throughout the year.
Financial Statements

176
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS 
OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC continued
4. OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY
The scope of our work is influenced by our view of materiality and our assessed risks of material misstatement. As we develop our audit strategy, 
we determine materiality at the overall level and at the individual account level (referred to as our ‘performance materiality’ (see below)).
3. OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH continued
DETERMINING THE 
SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT 
(SECTION 5)
Our scope is tailored to the circumstances of our audit of Shell and is influenced by our determination of materiality and our 
assessed risks of material misstatement.
We performed audits of the complete financial information of 17 operating units and specific audit procedures on an additional 
32 operating units. In selecting the operating units to be brought into audit scope, we assessed the risks of material misstatement 
of the financial statements based on size, complexity and risk, including the risk of fraud, and designed and implemented 
appropriate responses to the assessed risks. We performed procedures at a further 133 operating units that were specified by 
the group audit engagement in response to specific risk factors. In addition, we performed other group audit procedures at the 
consolidated level – see section 5 below.
In order to reflect changes brought about by enhancements to Shell’s finance function, changes to accounting standards and 
to introduce an appropriate level of unpredictability and rotation in our audit, we made the following refinements to our audit 
scope in 2019 compared to 2018: 
 ■ in order to recognise the increased amount of audit work that we would be carrying out at Shell’s business service centres 
(BSCs), we transferred audit activity from onshore to our business service centre audit teams. For example, our work related to 
Germany was carried out mainly in Krakow, other than the physical inventory verification, which continued to be performed 
by our German team. The same applied to US downstream, where much of the activity was transferred to Manila;
 ■ IFRS 16: we revised our audit procedures to reflect the requirements of the new standard. Also, we brought into scope 
three new entities in order to obtain sufficient audit coverage of the ‘right of use assets’; and
 ■ we revised our tax audit procedures to test centrally the main consolidated tax regimes (fiscal unities), including the US, 
UK and Netherlands.
IDENTIFYING KEY 
AUDIT MATTERS  
(SECTION 6)
We have identified the following key audit matters that, in our professional judgement, had the greatest effect on our 
overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and in directing the global audit team’s efforts:
 ■ the estimation of oil and gas reserves, including reserves used in the calculation of depreciation, depletion and 
amortisation (DD&A), impairment testing to evaluate the recoverable amounts of production assets and the estimation 
of decommissioning and restoration (D&R) provisions;
 ■ the recoverable amounts of exploration and production assets, and investments in joint ventures and associates; 
 ■ the estimation of future refining margins to evaluate the recoverability of manufacturing, supply and distribution assets;
 ■ the recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets;
 ■ revenue recognition: the risk of unrealised trading gains and losses being recognised as a result of errors, unauthorised 
trading activity or deliberate misstatement of Shell’s trading position; and
 ■ the dividend distribution process, including the determination of realised profits and losses for the purposes of making 
distributions under the Companies Act 2006 (this key audit matter relates to the Parent Company only).
In 2018, our auditor’s report included two key audit matters that have not been reported as key audit matters in our 2019 report. 
These relate to: (1) Enhancements to Shell’s system of IT general controls, and (2) The recognition, measurement, presentation 
and disclosure of leases (IFRS 16).
Although IFRS 16 was adopted on January 1, 2019, most of our audit effort was carried out in 2018 in order to audit the impact 
of the new standard, which was disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report. Consequently, we reported the adoption of IFRS 16 as 
a key audit matter in our 2018 report, and not in 2019.
 
In the current year, we have added two key audit matters that were not reported as key audit matters in our 2018 report. These 
relate to: (1) The estimation of future refining margins to evaluate the recoverability of manufacturing, supply and distribution 
assets, and (2) The dividend distribution process (Parent Company only).
Planning  
Materiality
Performance 
Materiality
Reporting  
differences
$1,200m
(2018: $1,000m)
$900m
(2018: $750m)
$60m
(2018: $50m)
Financial Statements

177
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Overall materiality
What we mean
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, as 
well as in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements (including omissions) on 
our audit and in forming our audit opinion. For the purposes of determining whether 
or not Shell’s financial statements are free from material misstatement (whether due 
to fraud or error), we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatements that, 
individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of the users of these financial statements. We are required to 
establish a materiality level for the financial statements as a whole that is 
appropriate in the light of Shell’s particular circumstances.
Our overall materiality provides a basis for identifying and assessing the risk 
of material misstatement and determining the nature and extent of our audit 
procedures. Our evaluation of materiality requires professional judgement and 
necessarily takes into account qualitative as well as quantitative considerations. 
It also considers our assessment of the expectations of those charged with 
governance at Shell and users of Shell’s financial statements.
As required by auditing standards, we reassess materiality throughout the 
duration of the audit.
Level set
Group materiality
We set our preliminary overall materiality for Shell’s Consolidated Financial 
Statements at $1,200 million (2018: $1,000 million). We kept this under review 
throughout the year and reassessed the appropriateness of our original 
assessment in the light of Shell’s results and external market conditions. 
Based on these reviews and reassessments, we did not find it necessary 
to revise our level of overall materiality.
Parent Company materiality 
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be $2.6 billion (2018: 
$2.6 billion), which is 1% (2018: 1%) of equity. Equity is an appropriate basis to 
determine materiality for an investment holding company, and 1% is a typical 
percentage of equity to use to determine materiality. Any balances in the parent 
company financial statements that were relevant to our audit of the consolidated 
group were audited using an allocation of group performance materiality.
Our basis for determining materiality 
Our assessment of overall materiality was $1,200 million. This was derived from 
an average of Shell’s earnings for 2017 and 2018 and the estimated result for 
2019 on a current cost of supplies basis (CCS earnings), excluding identified 
items reported by Shell in its quarterly results announcements, and adjusted 
for an effective tax rate. 
This approach of averaging over three years is consistent with the approach 
adopted by many large, international groups and moderates the effect of 
oil and gas price volatility.
The $1,200 million was determined by applying a percentage to the calculated 
average CCS earnings. When using an earnings-related measure to determine 
overall materiality, the norm is to apply a benchmark percentage of 5% of the 
pre-tax measure. In setting overall materiality, we applied a more prudent rate that 
was below the 5% benchmark. Our overall materiality is less than 5% of the 2019 
income before taxation.
In determining materiality, auditing standards require us to use benchmark 
measures, such as pre-tax income, gross profit and total revenue. Nevertheless, 
we have to exercise considerable judgement, including which earnings, activity 
or capital based measure aligns best with the expectations of users of Shell’s 
financial statements and the Audit Committee. In determining the most appropriate 
benchmark on which to base our materiality assessment, we have applied a 
‘reasonable investor perspective’. This reflects our understanding of the common 
financial information needs of Shell’s investors as a group, which we believe is CCS 
earnings, excluding identified items. Shell’s quarterly results announcements feature 
CCS earnings excluding identified items as the primary measure for earnings.
CCS earnings excluding identified items removes both the effects of changes in 
oil price on inventory carrying amounts and items disclosed as identified items that 
can significantly distort Shell’s results in any one particular year. In our view, the 
use of CCS earnings excluding identified items allows investors to understand how 
management has performed despite the commodity price environment, as opposed 
to because of it. Furthermore, analyst forecasts predominately feature CCS 
earnings, excluding identified items, as the basis for earnings. The analyst consensus 
data supports our judgement that CCS earnings, excluding identified items, is the 
key indicator of performance from a reasonable investor perspective.
The identified items, reported by Shell in its quarterly results announcements, were: 
net divestment gains ($2.6 billion), net impairments ($4.2 billion charge), fair value 
accounting of commodity derivatives and certain gas contracts($0.6 billion gain), 
redundancy and restructuring ($0.1 billion charge), and the aggregate of other 
individually small items (net $0.8 billion charge).
The identified items excluded in 2018 were: net divestment gains ($3.3 billion), 
net impairments ($1.0 billion charge), fair value accounting of commodity 
derivatives and certain gas contracts ($1.1 billion gain), redundancy and 
restructuring ($0.2 billion charge), and the aggregate of other individually 
small items (net $0.1 billion charge).
The identified items excluded in 2017 were: net divestment gains ($1.6 billion), 
impairments ($3.0 billion charge), fair value accounting of commodity derivatives 
and certain gas contracts ($0.3 billion loss), redundancy and restructuring ($0.4 
billion charge), impact of exchange rate movements on tax balances ($0.6 billion 
gain), impact arising from the US tax reform legislation ($2.0 billion charge) and 
the aggregate of other individually small items (net $0.2 billion charge).
On the basis of our analysis of these factors, we concluded that we should focus 
on Shell’s CCS earnings, excluding identified items reported by Shell in its quarterly 
results announcements, and adjusted for an effective tax rate.
Performance materiality
What we mean
Having established overall materiality, we determined ‘performance materiality’, 
which represents our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account. It is 
calculated as a percentage of overall materiality in order to reduce to an 
appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and 
undetected misstatements exceeds overall materiality of $1,200 million for Shell’s 
financial statements as a whole.
Once we determined our audit scope, we then assigned performance materiality to 
our various in-scope operating units. Our in-scope operating unit audit teams used 
this assigned performance materiality in performing their group audit procedures. 
The performance materiality allocation is dependent on the size of the operating 
unit, measured by its contribution of earnings to Shell, or other appropriate metric, 
and the risk associated with the operating unit.
Level set
On the basis of our risk assessment, our judgement was that performance 
materiality should be 75% (2018: 75%) of our overall materiality, namely $900 
million (2018: $750 million). In assessing the appropriate level, we consider the 
nature, the number and impact of the audit differences identified in 2018 as well 
as the overall control environment. 
In 2019, the range of performance materiality allocated to operating units was 
$135 million to $450 million (2018: $113 million to $375 million). This is set out 
in more detail in section 5 below.
Financial Statements

178
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS 
OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC continued
Audit difference reporting threshold
What we mean
This is the amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be 
clearly trivial. 
The threshold is the level above which we collate and report audit differences 
to the Audit Committee. 
We also report differences below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting 
on qualitative grounds. We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both 
the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other 
relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Level set
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences more than $60 million (2018: $50 million), as well as differences below 
that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
5. OUR SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF SHELL’S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
What we mean We are required to establish an overall audit strategy that sets the scope, timing and direction of our audit, and that guides the development 
of our audit plan. Audit scope comprises the physical locations, operating units, activities and processes to be audited that, in aggregate, are 
expected to provide sufficient coverage of the financial statements for us to express an audit opinion.
Criteria for determining 
our audit scope
Our assessment of audit risk and our evaluation of materiality determined our audit scope for each operating unit within Shell which, 
when taken together, enabled us to form an opinion on the financial statements under ISA (UK). Our audit effort was focused towards higher 
risk areas, such as management judgements, and on operating units that we considered significant based upon size, complexity or risk.
The factors that we considered when assessing the scope of the Shell audit, and the level of work to be performed at the operating units 
that were in scope for group reporting purposes, included the following:
 ■ the financial significance of an operating unit to Shell’s earnings, total assets or total liabilities, including consideration of the financial 
significance of specific account balances or transactions;
 ■ the significance of specific risks relating to an operating unit, history of unusual or complex transactions, identification of significant 
audit issues or the potential for, or a history of, material misstatements;
 ■ the effectiveness of the control environment and monitoring activities, including entity-level controls;
 ■ our assessment of locations that carry a higher than normal audit risk in relation to fraud, bribery or corruption; and
 ■ the findings, observations and audit differences that we noted as a result of our 2018 audit.
Selection of in-scope 
operating units
We reassessed our audit scope for 2019 compared to 2018. In particular, we considered Shell’s continued enhancement of their finance 
function and processes, which included the further standardisation and migration of processes to their BSCs. This enabled us further to 
centralise our audit procedures and refocus our scope, reducing the audit involvement at a component level and the number of operating 
units in our audit scope. 
We kept our audit scope under review throughout the year to reflect changes in Shell’s underlying business and risks; however no 
significant changes were required.
Full and 
specific scope
We selected 49 operating units (2018: 52) across 11 countries (2018: 11) based on their size or risk characteristics. We performed full scope 
audits of the complete financial information of 17 operating units (2018: 19). For 32 operating units (2018: 33) we performed specific scope 
audit procedures on individual account balances within the operating unit based on their size and risk profiles. 
Specified 
procedures
In addition to the 49 operating units (2018: 52) discussed above, we selected a further 41 operating units (2018: 38) where we performed 
procedures at the operating unit level that were specified by the group engagement team in response to specific risk factors and in order 
to ensure that, at the overall group level, we reduced and appropriately covered the residual risk of error.
In addition, specified procedures were performed at the group level on a further 92 (2018: 62) operating units. These procedures included 
the testing of Shell’s centralised activities addressing the implications of significant and complex accounting matters across all operating units, 
our centralised revenue and accounts receivable analytics program, testing controls for the revenue and purchase to pay processes, including 
IT general and IT application controls, segment level impairment reviews, procedures over the forecasts as they relate to deferred tax asset 
recoverability and review of pension scheme assumptions.
Group 
procedures
For the remaining 614 operating units (2018: 637), we performed supplementary audit procedures in relation to Shell’s centralised group 
accounting and reporting processes. These included, but were not limited to, Shell’s activities addressing the appropriate elimination of 
intercompany balances and the completeness of provisions for litigation and other claims. We performed testing of both manual and 
consolidation journal entries through the year, homogenous processes and controls at the BSCs and testing of group wide IT systems. We 
performed disaggregated analytical reviews on each financial statement line item and also tested Shell’s analytical procedures performed 
at a group, segment and function level.
In addition to this testing, we applied our Risk Scan analytics techniques, which consolidate internal and external data to identify potential risks 
of material misstatement. This allowed us to risk rate each of the 706 operating units whereby we identified 210 operating units where we 
believed that it was appropriate to carry out targeted testing. This included the audit of manual journal entries and/or the testing of payments 
to third party vendors to ensure that these had been approved in line with Shell’s policies and had an appropriate business rationale.
Our coverage by full, specific, specified and group procedures is illustrated below. The summary is by Total assets, CCS earnings and 
Revenue. Overall, our full, specific and specified procedures accounted for 70% of Shell’s absolute CCS earnings, excluding identified 
items reported by Shell in its quarterly results announcements and adjusted for an effective tax rate. The remaining CCS earnings were 
covered by Group wide procedures.
The Parent Company is located in the United Kingdom and audited directly by the Group engagement team.
4. OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY continued
Financial Statements

179
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Allocation of 
performance 
materiality to 
the in-scope 
operating units
The level of materiality that we applied in undertaking our audit work at the operating unit level was determined by applying a percentage 
of our total performance materiality. This percentage is based on the significance of the operating unit relative to Shell as a whole and our 
assessment of the risk of material misstatement at that operating unit. In 2019 the range of materiality applied at the operating unit level 
was $135 million to $450 million (2018: $113 million to $375 million). The operating units selected, together with the ranges of materiality 
applied, were: 
Location Segment / Function
No. of
operating units
Range of
materiality applied
$ million
Full scope operating units:
Australia, Qatar Integrated gas 4 180-270
Brazil, Nigeria, USA Upstream 4 180-270
USA Downstream 2 180-270
Barbados, Singapore, The Netherlands, UAE, UK, USA Trading and Supply 7 135-450
Total full scope operating units 17
Specific scope operating units:
Malaysia, UK Upstream 3 180
Singapore, USA Downstream 6 180
Singapore, The Netherlands, UK, USA Corporate 12 180
Canada, Singapore, UAE, UK, USA Trading and Supply 11 135-180
Total specific scope operating units 32
Total full and specific scope operating units 49
Integrated group 
engagement team 
structure
The group engagement partner and Senior Statutory Auditor, Allister Wilson, has overall responsibility for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the Shell audit engagement in compliance with professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
He is supported by 24 segment and function partners and associate partners, who are based in the Netherlands and the UK, and who 
together with related staff comprise the integrated group engagement team. This group engagement team established the overall group 
audit strategy, communicated with component auditors, performed work on the consolidation process, and evaluated the conclusions 
drawn from the audit evidence as the basis for forming Ernst & Young’s (EY) opinion on the group financial statements.
For the purpose of the group audit, the group engagement team is responsible for directing, supervising, evaluating and reviewing the 
work of EY global network firms operating under their instruction (local EY teams) to assess whether:
 ■ the work was performed and documented to a sufficiently high standard;
 ■ the local EY audit team demonstrated that they had challenged management sufficiently and had executed their audit procedures with 
a sufficient level of scepticism; and
 ■ there is sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support the conclusions reached.
 F ull scope
 S pecific scope
  Specified 
p
rocedures
  Covered by 
G
roup 
procedures
Total
Assets
48%
12%
21%
19%
CCS
Earnings
35%
13%22%
30%
Revenue
51%
32%
11%
6%
Financial Statements

180
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS 
OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC continued
Involvement with local 
EY teams
Shell has centralised processes and controls over key areas within its BSCs. Members of the group engagement team provide direct oversight, 
review, and coordination of our BSC audit teams. Our BSC teams performed centralised testing in the BSCs for certain accounts, including 
revenue, cash and payroll. In establishing our overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be 
undertaken at each of the operating units or BSCs by the group engagement team or by auditors from other local EY teams.
The group engagement team performed procedures directly on 92 of the in-scope operating units. For the operating units where the work 
was performed by local EY auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement of the group engagement team to enable us to 
conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained.
The group engagement team interacted regularly with the local EY teams during each stage of the audit, were responsible for the scope and 
direction of the audit process and reviewed key working papers. This, together with the additional procedures performed at the group level, 
gave us sufficient appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on Shell’s Consolidated Financial Statements. We maintained continuous 
dialogue with our local EY teams in addition to holding formal meetings each quarter to ensure that we were fully aware of their progress and 
the results of their audit procedures.
During 2019, the Senior Statutory Auditor and other group audit partners, associate partners and directors visited operating units across eight 
countries as well as each of Shell’s four BSCs. These visits included discussing the audit approach with the local EY teams and any issues 
arising from their work, meetings with Shell local management, attending planning and closing meetings, and reviewing key audit working 
papers on selected areas of audit risk. The visits also promoted deeper engagement with our local EY audit teams, ensuring that a consistent 
and cohesive audit approach was adopted so as to drive a high-quality audit. The countries and the BSC locations visited were as follows:
Countries visited BSCs
Australia
Brazil [A]
India [A]
Nigeria [A]
The Netherlands [A] 
Trinidad and Tobago
UK [A]
USA [A]
India [A]
Malaysia [A]
Philippines [A]
Poland [A]
[A] T hese locations were visited multiple times.
6. OUR ASSESSMENT OF KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current 
period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. As Shell’s auditors, we 
are required to determine – from the matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee during the year – those matters that required significant 
attention from us in performing our audit of Shell’s 2019 Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements. In making this determination we 
took the following into account:
 ■ the risks that we believed were significant to our audit and therefore required special audit consideration;
 ■ areas of higher assessed risk of material misstatement that influenced our audit focus;
 ■ significant audit judgements relating to areas in Shell’s Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements including accounting estimates that 
we identified as having high estimation uncertainty;
 ■ the effect on our audit of significant events or transactions that occurred during the period; and
 ■ those assessed risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts 
of the audit team.
On this basis, we identified the following key audit matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of Shell’s 
2019 Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements. These matters included those that had the greatest effect on: 
 ■ our overall strategy; 
 ■ the allocation of resources in the audit; and 
 ■ directing the efforts of our audit team. 
The key audit matters have been addressed in the context of the audit of Shell’s Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements as a whole, 
and in forming our opinions thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. The table below describes the key audit matters, a 
summary of our procedures carried out and our key observations that we communicated to the Audit Committee.
In 2018, our auditor’s report included two key audit matters that have not been reported as key audit matters in our 2019 report. These relate to: (1) 
Enhancements to Shell’s system of IT general controls, and (2) The recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases (IFRS 16). In the 
current year, we have added two key audit matters that were not reported as key audit matters in our 2018 report. These relate to: (1) The estimation of 
future refining margins to evaluate the recoverability of manufacturing, supply and distribution assets, and (2) The dividend distribution process, including 
the determination of realised profits and losses for the purposes of making distributions under the Companies Act 2006 (Parent Company only).
5. OUR SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF SHELL’S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

181
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
THE ESTIMATION OF OIL AND GAS RESERVES, INCLUDING RESERVES USED IN THE CALCULATION OF DEPRECIATION, 
DEPLETION AND AMORTISATION (DD&A), IMPAIRMENT TESTING TO EVALUATE THE RECOVERABLE AMOUNTS OF 
PRODUCTION ASSETS AND THE ESTIMATION OF DECOMMISSIONING AND RESTORATION (D&R) PROVISIONS
Description of the key audit matter Our response to the risk
This is a subjective estimate. Risk is unchanged 
compared to 2018.
As described in Note 8 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, production assets amounted 
to $150,366 million, and have an associated DD&A 
charge of $19,346 million. The accounting for these 
financial statement amounts relies on management’s 
estimation of proved oil and gas reserves. As described 
in Note 8, impairment charges of $3,639 million were 
recorded during the year. As described in Note 18, 
D&R provisions amounted to $19,019 million.
At December 31, 2019, Shell reported 11,096 million 
barrels of oil equivalent of proved developed 
and undeveloped reserves.
Auditing the estimation of oil and gas reserves is complex 
as there is significant estimation uncertainty in assessing the 
quantities of Shell’s reserves and resources. The estimates 
are based on a central group of experts’ assessments of 
petroleum initially in place, production curves and certain 
inputs, including future capital and operating cost 
assumptions and future carbon costs.
In-year movements are driven by revisions of previous 
estimates resulting from reclassifications, improved recovery 
assumptions, extensions and discoveries and purchases and 
sales of reserves in place. Revisions generally arise from new 
information, for example additional drilling results, changes 
in production patterns and changes to development plans.
Auditing these financial statement areas is complex 
because of the use of the work of reservoir engineers and the 
evaluation of the inputs selected by management described 
above, which are used by reservoir engineers in estimating 
proved oil and gas reserves.
Our reserves audit team includes auditors with substantial oil and gas reserves expertise, valuation 
experience and relevant qualifications in energy economics.
The procedures we carried out included the following:
 ■ we obtained an understanding of the controls over Shell’s oil and gas reserves estimation 
process. We then evaluated the design of these controls and tested their operating 
effectiveness. For example, we tested management’s controls over completeness and accuracy 
of the financial data provided to the reservoir engineers for use in estimating proved oil and gas 
reserves;
 ■ we tested that significant additions or reductions in proved reserves had been made in the 
period in which the new information became available; 
 ■ we evaluated the professional qualifications and objectivity of Shell’s internal reservoir 
engineers:
 – w
ho provide the detailed preparation of the reserve estimates; and 
 – t
hose who are primarily responsible for providing independent review and challenge, and 
ultimately endorsement of, the reserve estimates;
 ■ we evaluated the completeness and accuracy of the inputs used by the internal reservoir 
engineers in estimating the economic limit test for proved oil and gas reserves determination by 
agreeing the inputs to source documentation. The economic limit of a project is reached when 
the operating cash flow from a project becomes negative. The economic limit test has a direct 
impact on DD&A and impairment. Where relevant, we assessed whether the economic limit test 
incorporated Shell’s estimate of future carbon costs to reflect the potential impact of climate 
change and the energy transition. We also identified and evaluated corroborative and contrary 
evidence by comparing actual to prior year forecasts;
 ■ for proved undeveloped reserves, we evaluated management’s development plan for 
compliance with the SEC rule that undrilled locations must be scheduled to be drilled within five 
years, unless specific circumstances justify a longer time. This evaluation was made by assessing 
consistency of the development projections with Shell’s drilling, development and capital 
expenditure plans; 
 ■ we tested the proved undeveloped reserves recognised. Where volumes recognised remained 
undeveloped for more than five years from the date they were booked, or where development 
was not expected for at least five years, we assessed whether or not Shell was still working 
towards development by comparing to future development plans, including capital expenditure 
plans. Also, where reserves are recognised beyond current licence terms, we obtained evidence 
to support the assumption that the licence would be renewed; and
 ■ we assessed whether the energy transition assumptions incorporate the commitments that Shell 
have made with respect to decarbonisation in accordance with the Paris Agreement, specifically 
considering reserve volumes expected to be lifted beyond 2030.
Our procedures were led by the group engagement team, with input from our teams in Australia, 
Brazil, Canada, Kazakhstan, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Qatar, Russia and USA.
Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit Committee
In January 2020 we communicated to the Audit Committee that, based on the testing performed, we had not identified any significant errors in the oil and gas 
reserves estimates and concluded that the inputs and assumptions used to estimate proved reserves were reasonable. We also reported that we saw no evidence 
that the recognition of the reserve volumes expected to be lifted beyond 2030 results in the overstatement of Shell’s balance sheet by overstating the recoverable 
amounts of Shell’s production assets or understatement of D&R liabilities. 
Cross-reference: See the Audit Committee Report on page 130 for details on how the Audit Committee reviewed assurances for proved oil and gas reserves. Also, see Notes 2A and 8 to the 
“Consolidated Financial Statements”, and Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) on page 239. 
Financial Statements

182
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
6. OUR ASSESSMENT OF KEY AUDIT MATTERS continued
THE RECOVERABLE AMOUNTS OF EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ASSETS, AND INVESTMENTS IN JOINT 
VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 
Description of the key audit matter Our response to the risk
This is a forecast-based valuation. Risk is elevated 
compared to 2018 due to increased focus on the 
energy transition.
As described in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, at December 31, 2019, Shell recognised 
$165 billion of exploration and production assets 
within property, plant and equipment (PP&E). As 
described in Note 9 Shell also recognised investments 
in joint ventures and associates of $23 billion.
Assets’ operational performance and external factors have 
a significant impact on the estimate of the recoverable 
amounts of Shell’s Upstream and Integrated Gas assets.
Auditing the recoverable amounts of assets and investments 
is complex and subjective due to the significant amount 
of judgement involved. As described in Note 2A, the most 
critical assumptions in forecasting future cash flows are 
management’s view on the long-term oil and gas price 
outlook, future expected production volumes and the 
discount rate used. Forming a view on long-term oil and 
gas prices is inherently difficult, in particular with significant 
demand uncertainty due to factors such as world trade 
disputes, political instability, fears over a global recession 
and the pace of decarbonisation. 
The audit procedures were performed by our group 
engagement team as well as our local audit teams in 
Australia, Brazil, Malaysia, Nigeria, Qatar, the UK and USA, 
which covered 72% of PP&E and investments in joint ventures 
and associates in Upstream and Integrated Gas segments.
We also performed specified procedures over the 
recoverability of PP&E balances in Argentina, Bolivia, Brunei, 
Canada, Egypt, UAE, Iraq, Italy, Malaysia, the Netherlands, 
Nigeria, Oman, Qatar, Russia, Tunisia, Trinidad and Tobago 
and USA which covered an additional 16% of PP&E in the 
Upstream and Integrated Gas segments.
We obtained an understanding of the controls over Shell’s asset impairment process. We then 
evaluated the design of these controls and tested their operating effectiveness. For example, we 
tested controls over the identification of cash generating units, of indicators of impairment and 
reversals of impairment and the approval of key inputs to impairment assessments, including oil 
and gas prices, discount rates and oil and gas reserves.
We evaluated Shell’s asset impairment methodology for both exploration and production assets 
within PP&E and investments in joint ventures and associates. Where impairment assessments were 
carried out, we tested the mathematical accuracy and completeness of the models used. For those 
assets or investments impaired previously, we evaluated the actual results versus the assumptions 
made and considered if reversals were required.
To test price assumptions, we compared future short and long-term commodity prices to consensus 
analysts’ forecasts and those adopted by other international oil companies; we evaluated whether 
prices were used consistently across Shell, including pricing differentials, and evaluated whether 
Shell’s long-term price assumptions incorporated the potential impact of climate change and the 
energy transition by comparing the assumptions to the International Energy Agency price outlook 
in the Energy Outlook scenarios.
To test the discount rate used for impairment testing, we involved our oil and gas valuations 
specialists to assist in evaluating, amongst other things, the methodology applied and assumptions 
made. We also tested the underlying data used to support the discount rate calculation.
In order to evaluate the cash flow inputs of the impairment models, our procedures included the 
following:
 ■ tested that operating expenditure profiles and capital costs to complete construction agreed to 
approved operator budgets and management forecasts;
 ■ tested that carbon pricing was included in cash flows, where applicable;
 ■ reconciled reserves volumes in the impairment models and tested that the life-of-field 
assumptions were consistent with those applied in the decommissioning and restoration 
provision models; and
 ■ performed sensitivity analyses on key variables in the base case cash flow models to understand 
the impact of changes in certain assumptions (including oil and gas prices, production and 
operating expenditure levels). 
We assessed the basis for adjusting the cash flows to reflect the risks of each individual asset. In so 
doing, we considered the stage of the life of the asset, country risk and compared the consistency 
of management assumptions across similar fields.
Where impairment tests were undertaken, we performed sensitivity analyses of the models using 
different price scenarios and discount rates taking into account the nature of the asset, its location, 
its stage of development and associated risks.
Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit Committee
We reported that our price analysis provided strong independent evidence to support the reasonableness of Shell’s commodity price assumptions in relation 
to comparator benchmarks. Both oil and gas price assumptions have been reduced year on year and we noted that Shell’s oil price assumption was 
conservative versus the sector and analysts; however, we noted that the gas price assumption remained at the top of sector estimates.
We confirmed that we were satisfied that the cash flows used in the impairment tests had been risked appropriately and that the discount rate applied was 
appropriate.
We concluded that the impairments recorded were appropriately determined. Also, we reported that we were satisfied that there were not material impairment 
reversals that were required to be recognised. Where impairment tests were undertaken and no impairment was recorded, we performed specific sensitivity 
analyses on the key assumptions that drive the impairment analysis, and concluded that it was reasonable and supportable not to record an impairment charge.
Since early 2020, the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak across China and elsewhere has caused disruption to business and economic activity and may ultimately 
impact Shell’s future performance and asset values. In addition, an international dispute on or about March 7 , 2020 has triggered an oil price war that caused 
the largest one-day fall in the oil price since 1991. As part of our post balance sheet audit procedures, we have considered whether or not these events provide 
evidence of conditions that existed at the balance sheet date. On March 10, 2020, we reported to the Audit Committee orally that both events are indicative 
of conditions that arose after the balance sheet date, and that therefore they are both non-adjusting events that have no impact on our conclusions concerning 
the recoverable amounts of Shell’s assets at the balance sheet date.
Cross-reference: See the Audit Committee Report on page 133 for details on how the Audit Committee considered impairments. Also, see Notes 2A, 8, 9 and 29 to the “Consolidated 
Financial Statements”.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS 
OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC continued
Financial Statements

183
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
THE ESTIMATION OF FUTURE REFINING MARGINS TO EVALUATE THE RECOVERABILITY OF MANUFACTURING, SUPPLY 
AND DISTRIBUTION ASSETS
Description of the key audit matter Our response to the risk
This is a forecast-based assumption. Risk is elevated 
compared to 2018 due to increased focus on the 
energy transition.
As described in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, manufacturing, supply and distribution 
assets amounted to $56 billion. As described in Note 
2A, forecast refining margins are a key input to:
 ■ assessing whether or not there are indicators 
that refining assets might be impaired; and
 ■ whether there is a need for environmental 
provisions.
Auditing future refining margins is inherently complex as 
the margins are influenced by regional factors and there 
is limited external refining margin forecast data available. 
Shell’s approach to estimating long-term refining margins 
focuses on the concept of mean reversion of markets, unless 
a fundamental shift in markets has been identified, over an 
asset’s life, as opposed to attempting to forecast refining 
cycles. This approach is consistent with prior years, which 
is based on Shell statistical analysis showing that refinery 
margins and product cracking spreads have generally 
reverted either to a constant mean or trending mean, thus 
supporting the continued application of the mean reversion 
methodology. Mean reversion methodology assumes that the 
refining margin will revert to the average over time. In other 
words, deviations from the average are expected to revert 
to the average.
We obtained an understanding of the controls over Shell’s process for the estimation of refining 
margins. We then evaluated the design of these controls and tested their operating effectiveness. 
For example, we tested controls over the approval of refining margins.
Our other procedures included the following:
 ■ we read Shell’s documentation with respect to their methodology for determining refining 
margins and held discussions with the Shell individuals responsible for the analysis and 
implementing Shell’s established methodology;
 ■ we involved our oil and gas valuations specialists to assess the reasonableness of Shell’s refining 
margin estimation methodology, particularly in light of the expected impacts of a lower carbon 
economy, by performing an independent research exercise based on third party information to 
identify the long-term outlook for refining margins;
 ■ we assessed whether or not mean reversion is a valid methodology for forecasting refining 
margins by performing several statistical tests over different time spans to examine possible 
mean-reverting behaviour over the long-term as well as the short-term; 
 ■ we independently calculated mean refining margins for the regional refining hubs of North West 
Europe, Singapore-Dubai and United States Gulf Coast incorporating 14 years of data covering 
the period 2006-2019;
 ■ we assessed the extent to which the reversion to mean analysis is compatible with the potential 
of future energy transition by performing quantitative and qualitative analysis of refining 
margins, which included developing econometric and machine learning models to project 
refining margins, which incorporated the findings from the mean reversion trends;
 ■ to test the uncertainty related to how oil demand and refining capacity may evolve in the future, 
we developed different sets of scenarios that are consistent with differing rates of renewable 
energy adoption, including Shell’s “Sky Scenario” and compared to management’s refining 
margin forecast;
 ■ we considered the impact of oil demand, refining capacity, business cycles, environmental 
regulation, upcoming regulations, technology substitution and policy changes in our 
performance of over 900 statistical tests;
 ■ In evaluating the refining margins, we read third party research papers that examine the 
behaviour of refining margins from a statistical perspective; and
 ■ we used external broker reports to support our expectations with respect to future refining 
margins and assessed whether or not management’s projections aligned with our independent 
analysis. 
The audit procedures were performed principally by the group engagement team.
Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit Committee
We reported to the Audit Committee in January 2020 that management’s approach to estimating refining margins is consistent with industry valuation practice 
for refining assets. Our own empirical analysis corroborates Shell’s view that refining margins exhibit mean reversion in the long-term. It also indicates that, in the 
long-term, falling refined product demand could create structural change in the refining sector (including the closure of higher-cost refineries), which will result in 
asset returns that are commensurate with the underlying operating and financial risks.
Cross-reference: See the Audit Committee Report on page 133 for details on how the Audit Committee reviewed refining margins. Also see Notes 2A and 8 to the “Consolidated Financial 
Statements”.
Financial Statements

184
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
6. OUR ASSESSMENT OF KEY AUDIT MATTERS continued
RECOGNITION AND MEASUREMENT OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
Description of the key audit matter Our response to the risk
This is an estimation based on uncertain outcomes. 
The realisation of these assets is largely dependent 
on generating substantial future profits. Risk is 
elevated compared to 2018 due to increased 
focus on the energy transition.
As described in Note 16 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, at December 31, 2019, Shell recognised 
gross DTAs totalling $28 billion, which are recognised 
within two balance sheet line items, deferred tax 
assets and as an offset against deferred tax liabilities, 
depending on the overall tax position in a particular 
jurisdiction. A significant proportion of DTA balances 
is supported by forecast future taxable profits, 
which are derived from Shell’s commodity price 
assumptions and business plans.
Auditing the recognition and measurement of DTAs 
is complex because the estimation requires significant 
judgement, including the timing of reversals of deferred tax 
liabilities (DTL) and the availability of future profits against 
which tax deductions represented by the DTA can be offset. 
We obtained an understanding of the controls over Shell’s process for the estimation of deferred 
tax assets. We then evaluated the design of these controls and tested their operating effectiveness. 
For example, we tested controls over projected sources of taxable income and the deferred tax 
calculations that support the recognition of DTAs.
We considered the expected timing of utilisation of the DTA, including the relevant country tax 
laws that apply to the utilisation of tax losses. This included the ability to carry tax losses forward 
or back and any restrictions arising from ring fencing tax losses to particular projects.
We tested the forecast timing of the unwinding of taxable temporary differences by evaluating the 
projected sources of taxable income and considering the nature of the temporary differences and 
the relevant tax law.
For DTAs that are supported by forecast taxable profits or tax planning strategies, our procedures 
included the following:
 ■ we performed sensitivity analyses over the commodity price and/or other key assumptions that 
underpin Shell’s assessment of forecast probable taxable profits;
 ■ we evaluated the extent to which sufficient probable taxable profits would arise in the period 
within which the related losses would be available for utilisation, considering, for example, limits 
on the length of time that losses can be carried forward, if applicable, or if losses are ring fenced 
for tax purposes; and
 ■ we considered whether the tax balances were calculated using substantively enacted tax laws 
and rates.
For the tax planning strategies necessary to justify the recognition of the DTA, we involved our 
tax professionals to evaluate the application of tax law in the Company’s available tax planning 
strategies, Shell’s assessment of its ability to carry forward losses, the scheduling of the reversal of 
existing temporary taxable differences and carry forward amounts, and the evaluation of the 
carry forward lives of its deferred tax assets.
Our audit procedures over the recognition and valuation of DTAs were performed by our tax 
specialist teams in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, The Netherlands, Nigeria, 
Singapore, Qatar, the UK and USA, which covered 81% of the gross DTA balance. We also 
performed specified procedures over the recognition and valuation of DTAs in Albania, Austria, 
China, Egypt, France, Germany, Norway, Oman, Spain, Switzerland, Tanzania, Trinidad & 
Tobago, Tunisia and Turkey, which covered an additional 22% of the gross DTA balance.
Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit Committee
We reported to the January 2020 meeting of the Audit Committee that we had challenged the robustness of the key management judgements and confirmed 
that we were satisfied that where DTAs recognised are based on income forecast to arise beyond Shell’s planning horizon, we consider that there was 
sufficient future taxable profit that is probable to support the DTAs; however, we noted that a greater degree of judgement is required in recognising DTAs 
beyond Shell’s planning horizon.
We also reported to the Audit Committee that the DTAs were appropriately recognised and valued at the year end.
Cross-reference: See the Audit Committee Report on page 133 for details on how the Audit Committee reviewed certain tax matters, in particular the recoverability of deferred tax assets. Also 
see Notes 2A and 16 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS 
OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC continued
Financial Statements

185
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
REVENUE RECOGNITION: THE RISK OF UNREALISED TRADING GAINS AND LOSSES BEING RECOGNISED AS A RESULT 
OF ERRORS, UNAUTHORISED TRADING ACTIVITY OR DELIBERATE MISSTATEMENT OF SHELL’S TRADING POSITION 
Description of the key audit matter Our response to the risk
This is a risk of error in revenue due to the 
complexity of Shell’s trading and supply function. 
Risk is unchanged compared to 2018.
As described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, at December 31, 2019, Shell recognised 
$345 billion of revenue. As described in Note 19, 
Shell recognised derivative financial instrument 
assets of $8 billion and $7 billion of 
derivative financial instrument liabilities.
The recognition of unrealised trading gains and losses is a 
complex audit area. There is an inherently higher risk of error, 
of unauthorised trading activity or of deliberate misstatement 
of the group’s overall trading position.
Shell’s trading and supply function is integrated within the 
Downstream, Integrated Gas and Upstream segments and 
is spread across multiple regions. The trading and supply 
function is inherently complex due to, amongst other things, 
the fact that trading is not always carried out in active markets 
where prices are readily available. This exposes Shell to 
risks that are not normally associated with core oil and 
gas activities.
Auditing unrealised trading gains and losses is complex 
because of the significant judgement used in determining the 
key assumptions used in valuing the trades, the risk of error, 
of unauthorised trading activity or of deliberate 
misstatement of Shell’s trading positions.
The deliberate misstatement of Shell’s trading positions or 
mismarking of positions could result in understated trading 
losses, overstated trading profits and/or individual bonuses 
being manipulated through inappropriate inter-period profit/
loss allocations.
We obtained an understanding of the controls over Shell’s process for the recognition of revenue 
relating to unrealised trading gains and losses. We then evaluated the design of these controls and 
tested their operating effectiveness. For example, we tested controls within the front-to-end deal 
lifecycle across the trading and supply function around the review of valuation models.
Our trading audit professionals comprise of individuals who have significant experience of 
auditing both large commodity trading organisations and financial institutions.
The other procedures we performed included the following:
 ■ we enquired whether or not there were any breakdowns of trading controls or instances of 
rogue trading reported or known or suspected frauds; 
 ■ we obtained external confirmation of a sample of open trading positions with brokers and 
counterparties; 
 ■ where external confirmations were not received, we tested the existence of the deal by 
agreement to signed contracts;
 ■ we compared the price curves used by Shell to value the trading positions to external data;
 ■ we performed independent testing of valuation models, evaluating contract terms and key 
assumptions to independent market quotes; and 
 ■ we tested the completeness of the amounts recorded in the financial statements through 
procedures to search for unrecorded liabilities by comparing sales and trade receivables and 
purchases and trade payables that occurred near the end of the financial year to evaluate 
whether or not transactions were recorded in the correct period.
The audit procedures were performed principally by the group engagement team and the UK 
and US component teams.
Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit Committee
In March 2020, we reported to the Audit Committee that:
 ■ the valuation of derivative contracts as at December 31, 2019 was appropriate;
 ■ our testing – through a combination of controls testing and substantive audit procedures – satisfied us that the models used to value contracts were 
appropriate for the purposes of the valuations included in Shell’s Consolidated Financial Statements; 
 ■ the unrealised gains and losses had been recorded appropriately; and
 ■ our completeness testing did not identify any unrecorded liabilities or significant cut-off issues.
Cross-reference: See the Audit Committee Report on page 130 on how the Audit Committee reviewed Trading and Supply’s control framework. Also see Note 19 to the “Consolidated 
Financial Statements”.
Financial Statements

186
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
6. OUR ASSESSMENT OF KEY AUDIT MATTERS continued
THE DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION PROCESS, INCLUDING THE DETERMINATION OF REALISED PROFITS AND LOSSES FOR THE 
PURPOSES OF MAKING DISTRIBUTIONS UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 
Description of the key audit matter Our response to the risk
This is a risk of non-compliance with laws and 
regulations. This key audit matter relates to the 
Parent Company only.
RDS plc has $19 billion of distributable profits. At 
December 31, 2019, Shell distributed $15 billion of 
dividends and repurchased $10 billion of shares.
There is considerable public interest in ensuring that 
companies pay dividends and buy back shares out of 
profits available for distribution. Shell is both one of the 
world’s highest dividend-paying companies and has a 
significant share buyback programme.
The legal framework applicable to UK companies for 
determining profits available for distribution is contained 
in both the Companies Act 2006 and complementary 
technical guidance. Under this framework, distributions are 
made by individual companies and not by groups. The Shell 
Consolidated Financial Statements are therefore not relevant 
for the purpose of determining Shell’s profits available for 
distribution. Whether or not a distribution may be made by 
Shell is determined by reference to Shell’s ‘relevant accounts’, 
which are the Parent Company financial statements. 
The procedures we performed included the following:
 ■ We obtained an understanding of the procedures performed by management to monitor the 
profits available for distribution of the Parent Company. This included understanding the 
processes to monitor profits available for distribution of the subsidiary entities paying 
significant dividends to the Parent Company; 
 ■ We tested management’s distributable reserve controls at both the Parent Company and 
subsidiary entities that pay significant dividends, which are designed to ensure that there are 
sufficient profits available for distribution prior to a dividend being proposed and approved. 
Our testing included a review of management’s analysis of non-distributable profits or losses. 
We also assessed the completeness of the non-distributable profits or losses identified; 
 ■ We analysed transactions that impacted significantly the retained earnings of the Parent 
Company and subsidiary entities paying significant dividends and considered whether any 
of these transactions do not meet the criteria of distributable profits or losses. We considered 
whether operating and financial circumstances existed that could result in a dividend block 
within the group structure;
 ■ We reviewed management’s analysis of profits available for distribution in the Parent Company 
and compared this to the expected future dividends and share buy-back commitments. We 
also reperformed the calculation of distributable profits available for distribution of the Parent 
Company by reference to the relevant accounts; 
 ■ We compared the market capitalisation of Shell with the carrying amount of the investment held 
by the Parent Company that directly and indirectly holds the investments of Shell to assess 
whether there was any indication that the asset may be impaired. We compared the carrying 
value of the investment to its recoverable amount in order to identify any impairment that could 
have a direct impact on profits available for distribution; and
 ■ We satisfied ourselves that dividends paid and shares repurchased in 2019 were allowable, 
by reference to the most recent relevant accounts, for the purposes of making distributions 
under the Companies Act 2006.
The audit procedures were performed principally by the group engagement team and the 
UK component team.
Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit Committee
In January 2020, we reported to the Audit Committee that:
 ■ the procedures performed by management to monitor the profits available for distribution of the Parent Company and subsidiary entities paying significant 
dividends to the Parent Company were appropriate; 
 ■ the analysis performed by management to identify non-distributable profits or losses and expected future commitments or operating and financial circumstances 
that could result in a dividend block is appropriate; and
 ■ through a combination of controls testing and substantive audit procedures, we are satisfied that the profits available for distribution, by reference to the 
relevant accounts, were sufficient to support the dividends paid and declared and share buy-backs made by the Parent Company.
Cross-reference: See Note 23 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” and Note 8 to the “Parent Company Financial Statements”.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS 
OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC continued
Financial Statements

187
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
7. OTHER INFORMATION AND MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 171 and 239 to 256 including the Strategic 
Report, Governance and Additional Information sections, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The Directors are 
responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we 
do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In the table below, we have outlined our responsibility for the other information in the 
Annual Report and the matters we would like to draw to your attention. 
STRATEGIC REPORT AND THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Our responsibility
We are required to report whether, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
 ■ the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for 
which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and 
 ■ the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable 
legal requirements.
We are required to report by exception whether, in the light of the knowledge and understanding of 
the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have 
identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.
Our reporting
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course 
of the audit, the information given in the strategic report 
and the directors’ report for the financial year for which 
the financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements and they have been prepared 
in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Our reporting
We have nothing to report by exception.
PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT
Our responsibility
ISA(UK) requires us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to:
 ■ the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 27 to 36 that describe the principal risks and cross 
refer to where there are explanations of how the risks are being managed or mitigated;
 ■ the Directors’ confirmation set out on page 169 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity;
 ■ the Directors’ statement set out on page 171 in the financial statements about whether they considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification 
of any material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve 
months from the date of approval of the financial statements;
 ■ whether the Directors’ statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in 
accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the 
audit; or
 ■ the Directors’ explanation set out on pages 165 to 166 in the Annual Report as to how they have 
assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that 
period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that 
the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period 
of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions.
Our reporting
We have nothing material to add or draw attention 
to with regard to any of these matters.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE SET OUT ON PAGE 171
Our responsibility
We are required to consider whether the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual 
Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess Shell’s performance, business model and strategy, is 
materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Our reporting
In the context of our responsibilities on other information, 
we have nothing to report.
OTHER INFORMATION
Our responsibility
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to 
determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement 
of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
Our reporting
We have nothing to report in this regard.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Our responsibility
We are required to report whether the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We are also required to report by exception whether certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. 
Our reporting
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Our reporting
We have nothing to report by exception.
Financial Statements

188
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
7. OTHER INFORMATION AND MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION continued
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE SET OUT ON PAGES 115 to 116
Our responsibility
We are required to consider whether the parts of the Directors’ statement required under the Listing Rules 
relating to Shell’s compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified 
for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.10R(2) do properly disclose a departure from 
a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our reporting
In the context of our responsibilities on other information, 
we have nothing to report.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORTING SET OUT ON PAGES 139 TO 134
Our responsibility
We are required to consider whether the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not 
appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Our reporting
We have nothing to report by exception.
OTHER REPORTING
Our responsibility
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you by exception if, in our opinion:
 ■ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate 
for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 ■ the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 ■ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Our reporting
We have nothing to report by exception.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS 
OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC continued
8. RESPONSIBILTIES OF THE DIRECTORS
As explained more fully in the statement of Directors’ responsibilities set out on page 171, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is 
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing Shell and the Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to 
liquidate Shell or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
9. OUR RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that 
an audit conducted in accordance with ISA (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error 
and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of these financial statements.
10. EXPLANATION AS TO WHAT EXTENT THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, 
INCLUDING FRAUD
The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud; to 
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing 
appropriate responses; and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit. However, the primary responsibility for the 
prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: 
 ■ We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to Shell and determined that the most significant are 
those that relate to the reporting framework (IFRS, Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the US Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority) and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which Shell operates. In 
addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations that may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements and those laws and regulations relating to health and safety, employee matters, environmental, and bribery 
and corruption practices;
 ■ We understood how Shell is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and 
compliance procedures and the Company Secretary. We corroborated our enquiries through our review of Board minutes, papers provided to the 
Audit Committee and correspondence received from regulatory bodies and noted that there was no contradictory evidence;
Financial Statements

189
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
 ■ We assessed the susceptibility of Shell’s Consolidated Financial Statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by embedding 
forensic specialists into our group engagement team. Our forensic specialists worked with the group engagement team to identify the fraud risks 
across various parts of the business. In addition, we utilised internal and external information to perform a fraud risk assessment for each of the 
countries of operation. We considered the risk of fraud through management override and, in response, we incorporated data analytics across 
manual journal entries into our audit approach. We also considered the possibility of fraudulent or corrupt payments made through third parties and 
conducted detailed analytical testing on third party vendors in high risk jurisdictions. Where instances of risk behaviour patterns were identified 
through our data analytics, we performed additional audit procedures to address each identified risk. These procedures included testing of 
transactions back to source information and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or 
error. We also conducted specific audit procedures in relation to the risk of bribery and corruption across various countries of operation determined 
by a risk-based process;
 ■ Based on the results of our risk assessment we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified 
above. Our procedures involved journal entry testing, with a focus on journals meeting our defined risk criteria based on our understanding of the 
business; enquiries of legal counsel, group management, internal audit and all full and specific scope management; review of the volume and nature 
of complaints received by the whistleblowing hotline during the year; and
 ■ If any instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations were identified, these were communicated to the relevant local EY teams who 
performed sufficient and appropriate audit procedures, supplemented by audit procedures performed at the group level. Where appropriate we 
consulted our forensic specialists.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at https:/ /
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.
11. OTHER MATTERS WE ARE REQUIRED TO ADDRESS
Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee we were re-appointed by Royal Dutch Shell plc’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 
May 21, 2019, as auditors of Royal Dutch Shell to hold office until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company, and signed an engagement 
letter on May 22, 2019. Our total uninterrupted period of engagement is four years covering periods from our appointment through to the period 
ending December 31, 2019.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to Shell or the Parent Company and we remain independent of 
Shell and the Parent Company in conducting the audit. 
Our audit opinion is consistent with our additional report to the Audit Committee explaining the results of our audit.
12. USE OF OUR REPORT
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no 
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
/s/ Allister Wilson (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP
ALLISTER WILSON
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP 
London 
March 11, 2020
[A] T he maintenance and integrity of the Shell website are the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, 
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
[B]
 L
egislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Financial Statements

w
190
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
191 C onsolidated Statement of Income
191 C
onsolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
192 C
onsolidated Balance Sheet
193 C
onsolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
194 C
onsolidated Statement of Cash Flows
195 N
otes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
195 N
ote 1 Basis of preparation
195 N
ote 2A Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates
203 N
ote 2B Changes to IFRS not yet adopted
204 N
ote 3 Adoption of IFRS 16 Leases
206 N
ote 4 Segment information
209 N
ote 5 Interest and other income
209 N
ote 6 Interest expense
209 N
ote 7 Intangible assets
210 N
ote 8 Property, plant and equipment
213 N
ote 9 Joint ventures and associates
214 N
ote 10 Investments in securities
215 N
ote 11 Trade and other receivables
216 N
ote 12 Inventories
216 N
ote 13 Cash and cash equivalents
216 N
ote 14 Debt and lease arrangements
220 N
ote 15 Trade and other payables
220 N
ote 16 Taxation
223 N
ote 17 Retirement benefits
226 N
ote 18 Decommissioning and other provisions
227 N
ote 19 Financial instruments
232 N
ote 20 Share capital
232 N
ote 21 Share-based compensation plans and shares held in trust
233 N
ote 22 Other reserves
235 N
ote 23 Dividends
235 N
ote 24 Earnings per share
235 N
ote 25 Legal proceedings and other contingencies
237 N
ote 26 Employees
237 N
ote 27 Directors and Senior Management
238 N
ote 28 Auditor’s remuneration
238 N
ote 29 Post-balance sheet events
CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
Financial Statements

w
191
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
$ million
Notes 2019 2018 2017
Revenue 4 344,877 388,379 305,179
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 9 3,604 4,106 4,225
Interest and other income 5 3,625 4,071 2,466
Total revenue and other income 352,106 396,556 311,870
Purchases 252,983 294,399 223,447
Production and manufacturing expenses 4 26,438 26,970 26,652
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses 4 10,493 11,360 10,509
Research and development 4 962 986 922
Exploration 4 2,354 1,340 1,945
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 4 28,701 22,135 26,223
Interest expense 6 4,690 3,745 4,042
Total expenditure 326,621 360,935 293,740
Income before taxation 25,485 35,621 18,130
Taxation charge 16 9,053 11,715 4,695
Income for the period 4 16,432 23,906 13,435
Income attributable to non-controlling interest 590 554 458
Income attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 15,842 23,352 12,977
Basic earnings per share ($) 24 1.97 2.82 1.58
Diluted earnings per share ($) 24 1.95 2.80 1.56
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
$ million
Notes 2019 2018 2017
Income for the period 4 16,432 23,906 13,435
Other comprehensive income, net of tax
Items that may be reclassified to income in later periods:
Currency translation differences 22 344 (3,172) 5,156
Unrealised gains on securities [A] 593
Debt instruments remeasurements [A] 22 29 (15)
Cash flow and net investment hedging (losses)/gains 22 (267) 730 (552)
Deferred cost of hedging [A] 22 66 (209)
Share of other comprehensive (loss)/income of joint ventures and associates 9 (76) (10) 170
Total 96 (2,676) 5,367
Items that are not reclassified to income in later periods:
Retirement benefits remeasurements 22 (2,102) 3,588 604
Equity instruments remeasurements [A] 22 (30) (153)
Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates [A] 9 2 193
Total (2,130) 3,628 604
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the period 22 (2,034) 952 5,971
Comprehensive income for the period 14,398 24,858 19,406
Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interest 625 383 578
Comprehensive income attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 13,773 24,475 18,828
[A] C hanges in line items from 2018 onwards compared with 2017 are the result of the implementation of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments , effective from January 1, 2018.
Financial Statements

192
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
$ million
Notes Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 7 23,486 23,586
Property, plant and equipment 8 238,349 223,175
Joint ventures and associates 9 22,808 25,329
Investments in securities 10 2,989 3,074
Deferred tax 16 10,524 12,097
Retirement benefits 17 4,717 6,051
Trade and other receivables 11 8,085 7, 8 2 6
Derivative financial instruments 19 689 574
311,647 301,712
Current assets
Inventories 12 24,071 21,117
Trade and other receivables 11 43,414 42,431
Derivative financial instruments 19 7,1 4 9 7,1 9 3
Cash and cash equivalents 13 18,055 26,741
92,689 9 7, 4 8 2
Total assets 404,336 399,194
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Debt 14 81,360 66,690
Trade and other payables 15 2,342 2,735
Derivative financial instruments 19 1,209 1,399
Deferred tax 16 14,522 14,837
Retirement benefits 17 13,017 11,653
Decommissioning and other provisions 18 21,799 21,533
134,249 118,847
Current liabilities
Debt 14 15,064 10,134
Trade and other payables 15 49,208 48,888
Derivative financial instruments 19 5,429 7,1 8 4
Taxes payable 16 6,693 7, 4 9 7
Retirement benefits 17 419 451
Decommissioning and other provisions 18 2,811 3,659
79,624 7 7, 813
Total liabilities 213,873 196,660
Equity
Share capital 20 657 685
Shares held in trust (1,063) (1,260)
Other reserves 22 14,451 16,615
Retained earnings 172,431 182,606
Equity attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 186,476 198,646
Non-controlling interest 3,987 3,888
Total equity 190,463 202,534
Total liabilities and equity 404,336 399,194
Signed on behalf of the Board
/s/ Jessica Uhl
JESSICA UHL
Chief Financial Officer 
March 11, 2020
Financial Statements

193
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
$ million
Equity attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders
Non- 
controlling 
interest
Total 
equity
Share capital 
(see Note 20)
Shares 
held in trust
Other 
reserves 
(see Note 22)
Retained 
earnings Total
At January 1, 2019 (as previously published) 685 (1,260) 16,615 182,606 198,646 3,888 202,534
Impact of IFRS 16 [A] – – – 4 4 – 4
At January 1, 2019 (as revised) 685 (1,260) 16,615 182,610 198,650 3,888 202,538
Comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – (2,069) 15,842 13,773 625 14,398
Transfer from other comprehensive income – – (74) 74 – – –
Dividends (see Note 23) – – – (15,198) (15,198) (537) (15,735)
Repurchases of shares [B] (28) – 28 (10,286) (10,286) – (10,286)
Share-based compensation – 197 (49) (613) (465) – (465)
Other changes in non-controlling interest – – – 2 2 11 13
At December 31, 2019 657 (1,063) 14,451 172,431 186,476 3,987 190,463
At January 1, 2018 (as previously published) 696 (917) 16,932 17 7, 6 4 5 194,356 3,456 197,812
Impact of IFRS 9 – – (138) 88 (50) – (50)
At January 1, 2018 (as revised) 696 (917) 16,794 17 7, 73 3 194,306 3,456 19 7, 762
Comprehensive income for the period – – 1,123 23,352 24,475 383 24,858
Transfer from other comprehensive income – – (971) 971 – – –
Dividends (see Note 23) – – – (15,675) (15,675) (586) (16,261)
Repurchases of shares [B] (11) – 11 (4,519) (4,519) – (4,519)
Share-based compensation [C] – (343) (342) 693 8 – 8
Other changes in non-controlling interest – – – 51 51 635 686
At December 31, 2018 685 (1,260) 16,615 182,606 198,646 3,888 202,534
At January 1, 2017 683 (901) 11,298 175,566 186,646 1,865 188,511
Comprehensive income for the period – – 5,851 12,977 18,828 578 19,406
Dividends (see Note 23) – – – (15,628) (15,628) (406) (16,034)
Scrip dividends 13 – (13) 4,751 4,751 – 4,751
Share-based compensation – (16) (204) (74) (294) – (294)
Other changes in non-controlling interest – – – 53 53 1,419 1,472
At December 31, 2017 696 (917) 16,932 17 7, 6 4 5 194,356 3,456 197,812
[A] S ee Note 3. 
[B]
 T
he repurchase of shares recognised through retained earnings includes the aggregate maximum consideration to which Shell is contractually bound under the current tranche of the buyback 
programme, plus associated stamp duty (see Note 20). 
[C]
 T
he amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payment became effective January 1, 2018. Following adoption of the amendments, components of share-based payments (related to tax) that 
were previously classified as cash-settled are classified as equity-settled from 2018 onwards. 
Financial Statements

194
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
$ million
 Notes 2019 2018 2017
Income before taxation for the period [A] 4 25,485 35,621 18,130
Adjustment for:
Interest expense (net) 3,705 2,878 3,365
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 8 28,701 22,135 26,223
Exploration well write-offs 8 1,218 449 897
Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets and businesses (2,519) (3,265) (1,640)
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates (3,604) (4,106) (4,225)
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 4,139 4,903 4,998
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (2,635) 2,823 (2,079)
(Increase)/decrease in current receivables (921) 1,955 (2,577)
(Decrease)/increase in current payables (1,223) (1,336) 2,406
Derivative financial instruments (1,484) 799 (1,039)
Retirement benefits [A] (365) 390 (654)
Decommissioning and other provisions [A] (686) (1,754) (1,706)
Other [A] (28) 1,264 (142)
Tax paid ( 7, 6 0 5) (9,671) (6,307)
Cash flow from operating activities 42,178 53,085 35,650
Capital expenditure (22,971) (23,011) (20,845)
Investments in joint ventures and associates (743) (880) (595)
Investment in equity securities [A] (205) (187) (93)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and businesses 4,803 4,366 8,808
Proceeds from sale of joint ventures and associates 2,599 1,594 2,177
Proceeds from sale of equity securities [A] 469 4,505 2,636
Interest received 911 823 724
Other investing cash inflows [A] 2,921 1,373 2,909
Other investing cash outflows [A] (3,563) (2,242) (3,750)
Cash flow from investing activities (15,779) (13,659) (8,029)
Net decrease in debt with maturity period within three months (308) (396) (869)
Other debt:
New borrowings 11,185 3,977 760
Repayments (14,292) (11,912) (11,720)
Interest paid (4,649) (3,574) (3,550)
Derivative financial instruments [B] (48)
Change in non-controlling interest – 678 293
Cash dividends paid to:
Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 23 (15,198) (15,675) (10,877)
Non-controlling interest (537) (584) (406)
Repurchases of shares (10,188) (3,947) –
Shares held in trust: net purchases and dividends received (1,174) (1,115) (717)
Cash flow from financing activities (35,209) (32,548) (27,0 8 6)
Currency translation differences relating to cash and cash equivalents 124 (449) 647
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (8,686) 6,429 1,182
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 26,741 20,312 19,130
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 13 18,055 26,741 20,312
[A] W ith effect from 2019, the starting point for the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows is ‘Income before taxation’ (previously ‘Income’). Furthermore, to improve transparency, 'Retirement benefits' 
and 'Decommissioning and other provisions' have been separately disclosed. The 'Other' component of cash flow from investing activities has been expanded to distinguish between cash inflows 
and outflows. Prior period comparatives for these line items have been revised to conform with current year presentation. Overall, the revisions do not have an impact on cash flow from operating 
activities, cash flow from investing activities or cash flow from financing activities, as previously published. 
[B]
 A
s from 2019, a new line item 'Derivative financial instruments' has been introduced for derivatives related to debt.
Financial Statements

195
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 – BASIS OF PREPARATION
The Consolidated Financial Statements of Royal Dutch Shell plc (the 
“Company”) and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “Shell”) have 
been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006 (the “Act”) and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and therefore in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as 
adopted by the European Union. As applied to Shell, there are no material 
differences from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (“IASB”); therefore, the Consolidated Financial Statements have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. 
As described in the accounting policies in Note 2A, the Consolidated 
Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost 
convention except for certain items measured at fair value. Those 
accounting policies have been applied consistently in all periods, except 
for those accounting standards that were adopted from January 1, 2019 
(see Note 3 below). 
The Consolidated Financial Statements were approved and authorised for 
issue by the Board of Directors on March 11, 2020.
2A – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, 
JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES
This Note describes Shell’s significant accounting policies, which are those 
relevant to an understanding of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
It includes the measurement bases used in preparing the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. It allows an understanding as to how transactions, 
other events and conditions are reported. It also describes: (a) 
judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that management 
makes in applying the policies that have the most significant effect on the 
amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements; and (b) 
estimations, including assumptions about the future, that management 
makes in applying the policies. The sources of estimation uncertainty that 
have a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities within the next financial year are specifically 
identified as a significant estimate. 
The accounting policies applied are consistent with those of the previous 
financial years except for the adoption as from January 1, 2019 of IFRS 16 
Leases (“IFRS 16”), amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits (“IAS 19”) 
and the Annual Improvement Cycle 2015-2017 . 
Mandatory 
The impact of the transition to the accounting pronouncements as listed 
below have an immaterial impact other than for IFRS 16. 
IFRS 16
 Leases 
Under IFRS 16, all lease contracts, with limited exceptions, are recognised 
in the financial statements by way of right-of-use assets and corresponding 
lease liabilities. Shell applied the modified retrospective transition method, 
and consequently comparative information is not restated. As a practical 
expedient, no reassessment was performed of contracts that were 
previously identified as leases and contracts that were not previously 
identified as containing a lease applying IAS 17 Leases (“IAS 17”) and 
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease. At 
the adoption date, additional lease liabilities were recognised for leases 
previously classified as operating leases applying IAS 17 (see Note 3). 
These lease liabilities were measured at the present value of the remaining 
lease payments and discounted using entity-specific incremental 
borrowing rates at January 1, 2019. In general, a corresponding 
right-of-use asset was recognised for an amount equal to each lease 
liability, adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease 
payment relating to the specific lease contract, as recognised on the 
balance sheet at December 31, 2018. Provisions for onerous lease 
contracts at December 31, 2018 were adjusted to the respective 
right-of-use assets recognised at January 1, 2019. 
The adoption of the new standard had an accumulated impact of 
$4 million on equity following the recognition of lease liabilities of 
$16.0 billion and additional right-of-use assets of $15.6 billion and 
reclassifications mainly related to pre-paid leases and onerous 
contracts previously recognised (see Note 3). 
IAS 19 
Employee Benefits 
IAS 19 specifies how a company accounts for a defined benefit plan. 
When a plan event (i.e., a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement) 
occurs, IAS 19 requires a company to update its assumptions and 
remeasure its net defined benefit liability or asset. The IAS 19 amendments 
that are adopted clarify that after a plan event, entities would use these 
updated assumptions to measure current service cost and net interest for 
the remainder of the reporting period after the plan event. These 
amendments had no impact on Shell. 
Annual Improvement Cycle 2015-2017 
The Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle includes 
minor amendments affecting IFRS 3 Business combinations, IFRS 11 Joint 
arrangements, IAS 12 Income taxes, and IAS 23 Borrowing costs. None 
of the amendments had a material impact on Shell. 
IFRIC 23 
Uncertainty over income tax treatments (“IFRIC 23”) 
IFRIC 23 clarifies the recognition and measurement for income tax when 
it is unclear whether a taxation authority will accept the tax treatment 
claimed. An uncertain tax position arises where there is more than one 
possible interpretation of how tax regulations apply to a given transaction 
or event. The interpretation requires the Company to determine whether 
uncertain tax treatments are assessed separately or as a group. The 
interpretation also requires an assumption that a taxation authority has full 
knowledge of all relevant information. Where it is not probable that a 
taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment, it requires the 
Company to reflect the effect of the uncertainty in the accounting tax 
position. Finally, reassessment should be performed on a yearly basis in 
the event of changes in facts and circumstances. 
Based on the assessment performed, this interpretation had no material 
impact on Shell’s uncertain income tax accounting positions recognised. 
NATURE OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in US dollars 
(dollars) and comprise the financial statements of the Company and its 
subsidiaries, being those entities over which the Company has control, 
either directly or indirectly, through exposure or rights to their variable 
returns and the ability to affect those returns through its power over 
the entities. Information about subsidiaries at December 31, 2019, 
can be found in ‘Appendix 1: Significant Subsidiaries and Other 
Related Undertakings’.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained 
until the date that such control ceases, using consistent accounting 
policies. All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised 
profits arising from such transactions, are eliminated. Unrealised losses are 
also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment 
of the asset transferred. Non-controlling interest represents the proportion 
of income, other comprehensive income and net assets in subsidiaries that 
is not attributable to the Company’s shareholders. 
CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Foreign currency transactions are translated using the exchange rate at 
the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation at quarter-end exchange rates of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
(including those in respect of inter-company balances, unless related to 
loans of a long-term investment nature) are recognised in income. This is 
Financial Statements

196
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
2A – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, 
JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES continued
except when recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of cash 
flow or net investment hedges, and presented within interest and other 
income or within purchases where not related to financing. Share capital 
issued in currencies other than the dollar is translated at the exchange 
rate at the date of issue. 
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of non-dollar entities are translated 
to dollars at year-end rates of exchange, while their statements of income, 
other comprehensive income and cash flows are translated at quarterly 
average rates. The resulting translation differences are recognised as 
currency translation differences within other comprehensive income. 
Upon sale of all or part of an interest in, or upon liquidation of, an entity, 
the appropriate portion of cumulative currency translation differences 
related to that entity are generally recognised in income. 
REVENUE RECOGNITION (from January 1, 2018) 
Revenue from sales of oil, natural gas, chemicals and other products is 
recognised at the transaction price to which Shell expects to be entitled, 
after deducting sales taxes, excise duties and similar levies. For contracts 
that contain separate performance obligations, the transaction price is 
allocated to those separate performance obligations by reference to their 
relative standalone selling prices. 
Revenue is recognised when control of the products has been transferred 
to the customer. For sales by Integrated Gas and Upstream operations, 
this generally occurs when the product is physically transferred into a 
vessel, pipe or other delivery mechanism; for sales by refining operations, 
it is either when the product is placed onboard a vessel or offloaded from 
the vessel, depending on the contractually agreed terms; and for sales of 
oil products and chemicals, it is either at the point of delivery or the point 
of receipt, depending on contractual conditions. 
Revenue resulting from hydrocarbon production from properties in which 
Shell has an interest with partners in joint arrangements is recognised on 
the basis of Shell’s volumes lifted and sold. Revenue resulting from the 
production of oil and natural gas under production-sharing contracts 
(“PSCs”) is recognised for those amounts relating to Shell’s cost recoveries 
and Shell’s share of the remaining production. Gains and losses on 
derivative contracts and the revenue and costs associated with other 
contracts that are classified as held primarily for the purpose of being 
traded are reported on a net basis in the Consolidated Statement of 
Income. Purchases and sales of hydrocarbons under exchange contracts 
that are necessary to obtain or reposition feedstocks for refinery 
operations are presented net in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
Revenue resulting from arrangements that are not considered contracts 
with customers is presented as revenue from other sources. 
REVENUE RECOGNITION (prior to January 1, 2018) 
Revenue from sales of oil, natural gas, chemicals and other products is 
recognised at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after 
deducting sales taxes, excise duties and similar levies, when the significant 
risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred, which is when title 
passes to the customer. For sales by Integrated Gas and Upstream 
operations, this generally occurs when product is physically transferred 
into a vessel, pipe or other delivery mechanism; for sales by refining 
operations, it is either when product is placed onboard a vessel or 
offloaded from the vessel, depending on the contractually agreed terms; 
and for sales of oil products and chemicals, it is either at the point of 
delivery or the point of receipt, depending on contractual conditions. 
Revenue resulting from hydrocarbon production from properties in which 
Shell has an interest with partners in joint arrangements is recognised on 
the basis of Shell’s working interest (entitlement method). Revenue resulting 
from the production of oil and natural gas under PSCs is recognised for 
those amounts relating to Shell’s cost recoveries and Shell’s share of the 
remaining production. Gains and losses on derivative contracts and the 
revenue and costs associated with other contracts that are classified as 
held for trading purposes are reported on a net basis in the Consolidated 
Statement of Income. Purchases and sales of hydrocarbons under 
exchange contracts that are necessary to obtain or reposition feedstocks 
for refinery operations are presented net in the Consolidated Statement 
of Income. 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
Development costs that are expected to generate probable future 
economic benefits are capitalised as intangible assets. All other research 
and development expenditure is recognised in income as incurred. 
EXPLORATION COSTS 
Hydrocarbon exploration costs are accounted for under the successful 
efforts method: exploration costs are recognised in income when 
incurred, except that exploratory drilling costs, including in respect of 
the recapitalisation of depreciation, are included in property, plant and 
equipment pending determination of proved reserves. Exploration costs 
capitalised in respect of exploration wells that are more than 12 months 
old are written off unless: (a) proved reserves are booked; or (b) (i) they 
have found commercially producible quantities of reserves and (ii) they 
are subject to further exploration or appraisal activity in that either 
drilling of additional exploratory wells is under way or firmly planned 
for the near future or other activities are being undertaken to sufficiently 
progress the assessing of reserves and the economic and operating 
viability of the project. 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND 
INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Recognition 
Property, plant and equipment comprise assets owned by Shell, assets 
held by Shell under lease contracts, and assets operated by Shell as 
contractor in PSCs. They include rights and concessions in respect of 
properties with proved reserves (“proved properties”) and with no proved 
reserves (“unproved properties”). Property, plant and equipment, including 
expenditure on major inspections, and intangible assets are initially 
recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost where it is 
probable that they will generate future economic benefits. This includes 
capitalisation of decommissioning and restoration costs associated with 
provisions for asset retirement (see ‘Provisions’), certain development costs 
(see ‘Research and development’) and the effects of associated cash flow 
hedges (see ‘Financial instruments (from January 1, 2018)’) as applicable. 
The accounting for exploration costs is described separately (see 
‘Exploration costs’). Intangible assets include goodwill, liquefied natural 
gas (“LNG”) off-take and sales contracts obtained through acquisition, 
software costs and trademarks. Interest is capitalised as an increase 
in property, plant and equipment, on major capital projects 
during construction. 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are subsequently 
carried at cost less accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortisation 
(including any impairment). Gains and losses on sale are determined by 
comparing the proceeds with the carrying amounts of assets sold and 
are recognised in income, within interest and other income. 
Financial Statements

197
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
An asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be 
recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, 
which is when the sale is highly probable, and it is available for immediate 
sale. Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the 
carrying amount upon classification and the fair value less costs to sell. 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 
Property, plant and equipment related to hydrocarbon production 
activities are in principle depreciated on a unit-of-production basis over 
the proved developed reserves of the field concerned, other than assets 
whose useful lives differ from the lifetime of the field which are depreciated 
applying the straight-line method. However, for certain Upstream assets, 
the use for this purpose of proved developed reserves, which are 
determined using the SEC-mandated yearly average oil and gas prices, 
would result in depreciation charges for these assets which do not reflect 
the pattern in which their future economic benefits are expected to be 
consumed as, for example, it may result in assets with long-term expected 
lives being depreciated in full within one year. Therefore, in these 
instances, other approaches are applied to determine the reserves base 
for the purpose of calculating depreciation, such as using management’s 
expectations of future oil and gas prices rather than yearly average 
prices, to provide a phasing of periodic depreciation charges that more 
appropriately reflects the expected utilisation of the assets concerned. 
Rights and concessions in respect of proved properties are depleted on 
the unit-of-production basis over the total proved reserves of the relevant 
area. Where individually insignificant, unproved properties may be 
grouped and depreciated based on factors such as the average 
concession term and past experience of recognising proved reserves. 
Property, plant and equipment held under leases contracts and 
capitalised LNG off-take and sales contracts are depreciated or 
amortised over the term of the respective contract. Other property, plant 
and equipment and intangible assets are depreciated or amortised on a 
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, except for goodwill, 
which is not amortised. They include refineries and chemical plants (for 
which the useful life is generally 20 years), retail service stations (15 years), 
upgraders (30 years) and major inspection costs, which are depreciated 
over the estimated period before the next planned major inspection (three 
to five years). 
On classification of an asset as held for sale, depreciation ceases. 
Estimates of the useful lives and residual values of property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets are reviewed annually and adjusted if 
appropriate. 
Impairment 
The carrying amount of goodwill is tested for impairment annually; in 
addition, assets other than unproved properties (see ‘Exploration costs’) 
are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amounts for those assets may not be 
recoverable. On classification as held for sale, the carrying amounts of 
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are also reviewed. If 
assets are determined to be impaired, the carrying amounts of those 
assets are written down to their recoverable amount, which is the higher of 
fair value less costs to sell (see ‘Fair value measurements’) and value in use. 
Value in use is determined as the amount of estimated risk-adjusted 
discounted future cash flows. For this purpose, assets are grouped into 
cash-generating units based on separately identifiable and largely 
independent cash inflows. Estimates of future cash flows used in the 
evaluation of impairment of assets are made using management’s 
forecasts of commodity prices, market supply and demand, potential costs 
associated with operational GHG emissions, and forecast product and 
refining margins. In addition, management takes into consideration the 
expected useful lives of the refineries, and exploration and production 
assets, and expected production volumes. The latter takes into account 
assessments of field and reservoir performance and includes expectations 
about both proved reserves and volumes that are expected to constitute 
proved reserves in the future (unproved volumes), which are risk-weighted 
utilising geological, production, recovery and economic projections. Cash 
flow estimates are risk-adjusted to reflect local conditions as appropriate 
and discounted at a rate based on Shell’s marginal cost of debt. 
Impairments, except those related to goodwill, are reversed as applicable 
to the extent that the events or circumstances that triggered the original 
impairment have changed. 
Impairment losses and reversals are reported within depreciation, 
depletion and amortisation. 
Judgements and estimates
Proved oil and gas reserves
Unit-of-production depreciation, depletion and amortisation charges 
are principally measured based on management’s estimates of proved 
developed oil and gas reserves. Also, exploration drilling costs are 
capitalised pending the results of further exploration or appraisal 
activity, which may take several years to complete and before any 
related proved reserves can be booked. 
Proved reserves are estimated by a central group of reserves experts. 
The estimated proved reserves are made by reference to available 
geological and engineering data and only include volumes for which 
access to market is assured with reasonable certainty. Yearly average 
oil and gas prices are applied in the determination of proved reserves. 
Estimates of proved reserves are inherently imprecise, require the 
application of judgement and are subject to regular revision, either 
upward or downward, based on new information such as from the 
drilling of additional wells, observation of long-term reservoir 
performance under producing conditions and changes in economic 
factors, including product prices, contract terms, legislation or 
development plans. 
Changes to estimates of proved developed reserves affect 
prospectively the amounts of depreciation, depletion and amortisation 
charged and, consequently, the carrying amounts of exploration and 
production assets. It is expected, however, that in the normal course of 
business the diversity of the asset portfolio will limit the effect of such 
revisions. The outcome of, or assessment of plans for, exploration or 
appraisal activity may result in the related capitalised exploration 
drilling costs being recognised in income in that period. 
Judgement is involved in determining when to use an alternative reserves 
base in order to appropriately reflect the expected utilisation of the 
assets concerned (see ‘Depreciation, depletion and amortisation’). 
Information about the carrying amounts of exploration and production 
assets and the amounts charged to income, including depreciation, 
depletion and amortisation and the quantitative impact of the use of 
an alternative reserve base, is presented in Note 8. 
Financial Statements

198
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
2A – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, 
JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES continued
Judgements and estimates continued
Impairment 
For the purposes of determining whether impairment of assets has 
occurred, and the extent of any impairment loss or its reversal, the key 
assumptions management uses in estimating risk-adjusted future cash 
flows for value-in-use measures are future oil and gas prices, potential 
costs associated with operational GHG emissions, expected 
production volumes and refining margins appropriate to the local 
circumstances and environment. These assumptions and the 
judgements of management that are based on them are subject to 
change as new information becomes available. Changes in economic 
conditions can affect the rate used to discount future cash flow 
estimates or the risk-adjustment in the future cash flows. 
Estimation is involved with respect to the expected life of refineries and 
chemicals sites, and also including management’s view on the future 
development of refining margins. 
The determination of cash-generating units requires judgement. 
Changes in this determination could impact the calculation of value in 
use and therefore the conclusion on the recoverability of assets’ 
carrying amounts when performing an impairment test. 
Judgement, which is subject to change as new information becomes 
available, can be required in determining when an asset is classified as 
held for sale. A change in that judgement could result in impairment 
charges affecting income, depending on whether classification 
requires a write down of the asset to its fair value less costs to sell. 
Significant estimates 
Future commodity price assumptions, presented in Note 8, tend to be 
stable because management does not consider short-term increases or 
decreases in prices as being indicative of long-term levels, but they are 
nonetheless subject to change. Expected production volumes, which 
comprise proved reserves and unproved volumes, are used for 
impairment testing because management believes this to be the most 
appropriate indicator of expected future cash flows. As discussed in 
‘Proved oil and gas reserves’ above, reserves estimates are inherently 
imprecise. Furthermore, projections about unproved volumes are 
based on information that is necessarily less robust than that available 
for mature reservoirs. Due to the nature and geographical spread of 
the business activity in which those assets are used, it is typically not 
practicable to estimate the likelihood or extent of impairments under 
different sets of assumptions for Shell overall. 
Changes in assumptions could affect the carrying amounts of assets, 
and any impairment losses and reversals will affect income. 
Forecast refining margins are a key input for impairment testing in 
Downstream. Management’s estimate of longer-term refining margins 
is based on the mean reversion of markets, unless a fundamental shift 
in markets has been identified, over the life of the refineries. Under this 
approach, that is consistently applied, it is assumed that refining 
margins will revert to historical averages over time.
Changes in assumptions could affect the carrying amounts of assets 
and estimation of environmental provisions. Any impairment losses 
and reversals will affect income.
Information about the carrying amounts of assets and impairments is 
presented in Notes 7 and 8.
LEASES (from January 1, 2019) 
A contract or parts of contracts, that conveys the right to control the use 
of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for payments to be 
made to the owners (lessors) are accounted for as leases. Contracts are 
assessed to determine whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at the 
inception of a contract or when the terms and conditions of a contract are 
significantly changed. The lease term is the non-cancellable period of a 
lease, together with contractual options to extend or to terminate the 
lease early, where it is reasonably certain that an extension option 
will be exercised or a termination option will not be exercised. 
At the commencement of a lease contract, a right-of-use asset and a 
corresponding lease liability are recognised, unless the lease term is 
12 months or less. The commencement date of a lease is the date the 
underlying asset is made available for use. The lease liability is measured 
at an amount equal to the present value of the lease payments during the 
lease term that are not paid at that date. The lease liability includes 
contingent rentals and variable lease payments that depend on an index, 
rate, or where they are fixed payments in substance. The lease liability is 
remeasured when the contractual cash flows of variable lease payments 
change due to a change in an index or rate when the lease term changes 
following a reassessment. 
Lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. 
If that rate is not readily available, the incremental borrowing rate is 
applied. The incremental borrowing rate reflects the rate of interest that 
the lessee would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, with a similar 
security, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar nature and 
value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment. 
In general, a corresponding right-of-use asset is recognised for an amount 
equal to each lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any pre-paid lease 
payment relating to the specific lease contract. The depreciation on 
right-of-use assets is recognised in income unless capitalised as 
exploration drilling cost (see ‘Exploration cost’) or capitalised when the 
right-of-use asset is used to construct another asset. 
Where Shell is the lessor in a lease arrangement at inception, the lease 
arrangement will be classified as a finance lease or an operating lease. 
Classification is based on the extent to which the risks and rewards 
incidental to ownership of the underlying asset lie with the lessor or 
the lessee. 
Where Shell, usually in its capacity as operator, has entered into a lease 
contract on behalf of a joint arrangement, a lease liability is recognised 
to the extent that Shell has primary responsibility for the lease liability. 
A finance sub-lease is subsequently recognised if the related right-of-use 
asset is subleased to the joint arrangement. This is usually the case when 
the joint arrangement has the right to direct the use of the asset. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

199
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Impairment of the right-of-use asset 
Right-of-use assets are subject to existing impairment requirements 
as set out in ‘Property, plant and equipment’ (see Note 8). 
Judgements and estimates
A lease term includes optional lease periods where it is reasonably 
certain to exercise the option to extend or not to exercise the option to 
terminate the lease. Determination of the lease term is subject to 
judgement and has an impact on the measurement of the lease liability 
and related right-of-use asset. 
Where the rate implicit in the lease is not readily available, an 
incremental borrowing rate is applied. This incremental borrowing rate 
reflects the rate of interest that the lessee would have to pay to borrow 
over a similar term, with a similar security, the funds necessary to obtain 
an asset of a similar nature and value to the right-of-use asset in a similar 
economic environment. Determination of the incremental borrowing 
rate requires estimation. The incremental borrowing rate is determined 
using the risk-free rate over a matched term, adjusted for factors such 
as the credit rating of the lessee and the borrowing currency. 
Significant estimate 
The operating leases that were recognised on the balance sheet 
following the adoption of IFRS 16 (see Note 3) were measured 
applying an incremental borrowing rate at transition date to the future 
payments under these lease contracts. To determine the incremental 
borrowing rate for each lease contract, a risk-free rate at transition 
date was applied, adjusted for other factors such as the credit rating of 
the entity that entered into the lease contract, a country risk premium, 
the impact of currency, an asset specific element and the term of the 
lease contract. All factors are subject to estimation. If a higher or lower 
incremental borrowing rate had been applied, the lease liability 
and corresponding right-of-use asset would respectively have 
been lower or higher. The incremental borrowing rate will not be 
revised each period and will not result in a material adjustment to 
the carrying amount of lease liability and right-of-use asset in the 
future years.
LEASES (prior to January 1, 2019) 
Agreements under which payments are made to owners in return for the 
right to use an asset for a period are accounted for as leases. Leases that 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are recognised 
at the commencement of the lease term as finance leases within property, 
plant and equipment and debt at the fair value of the leased asset or, if 
lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Finance lease 
payments are apportioned between interest expense and repayments of 
debt. All other leases are classified as operating leases and the cost is 
recognised in income on a straight-line basis, except where capitalised 
as exploration drilling costs (see ‘Exploration costs’). 
JOINT ARRANGEMENTS AND ASSOCIATES 
Arrangements under which Shell has contractually agreed to share control 
(see ‘Nature of the Consolidated Financial Statements’ for the definition of 
control) with another party or parties are joint ventures where the parties 
have rights to the net assets of the arrangement, or joint operations where 
the parties have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities 
relating to the arrangement. Investments in entities over which Shell has 
the right to exercise significant influence but neither control nor joint 
control are classified as associates. Information about incorporated joint 
arrangements and associates at December 31, 2019, can be found in 
‘Appendix 1: Significant Subsidiaries and Other Related Undertakings’. 
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the 
equity method, under which the investment is initially recognised at cost 
and subsequently adjusted for the Shell share of post-acquisition income 
less dividends received and the Shell share of other comprehensive 
income and other movements in equity, together with any loans of a 
long-term investment nature. Where necessary, adjustments are made 
to the financial statements of joint ventures and associates to bring the 
accounting policies used into line with those of Shell. In an exchange of 
assets and liabilities for an interest in a joint venture, the non-Shell share of 
any excess of the fair value of the assets and liabilities transferred over the 
pre-exchange carrying amounts is recognised in income. Unrealised gains 
on other transactions between Shell and its joint ventures and associates 
are eliminated to the extent of Shell’s interest in them; unrealised losses are 
treated similarly but may also result in an assessment of whether the asset 
transferred is impaired. 
Shell recognises its assets and liabilities relating to its interests in joint 
operations, including its share of assets held jointly and liabilities incurred 
jointly with other partners. 
INVENTORIES 
Inventories are stated at cost or net realisable value, whichever is lower. 
Cost comprises direct purchase costs (including transportation), and 
associated costs incurred in bringing inventories to their present condition 
and location, and is determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method 
for oil, gas and chemicals and by the weighted average cost method for 
materials. 
TAXATION 
The charge for current tax is calculated based on the income reported by 
the Company and its subsidiaries, as adjusted for items that are non-
taxable or disallowed and using rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is determined, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and on unused tax 
losses and credits carried forward. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the enacted or 
substantively enacted rates that are expected to apply when an asset is 
realised or a liability is settled. They are not recognised where they arise 
on the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a 
transaction (other than in a business combination) that, at the time of the 
transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, or in respect of 
taxable temporary differences associated with subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates where the reversal of the respective temporary difference 
can be controlled by Shell and it is probable that it will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, unused tax losses and credits carried forward 
can be utilised. 
Income tax receivables and payables as well as deferred tax assets and 
liabilities include provisions for uncertain income tax positions/treatments.
Financial Statements

200
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
2A – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, 
JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES continued
Income taxes are recognised in income except when they relate to 
items recognised in other comprehensive income, in which case the tax 
is recognised in other comprehensive income. Income tax assets and 
liabilities are presented separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet 
except where there is a right of offset within fiscal jurisdictions and an 
intention to settle such balances on a net basis. 
Judgements and estimates
Tax liabilities are recognised when it is considered probable that there 
will be a future outflow of funds to a taxing authority. In such cases, 
provision is made for the amount that is expected to be settled, where 
this can be reasonably estimated. Provisions for uncertain income tax 
positions/treatments are measured at the most likely amount or the 
expected value, whichever method is more appropriate. Generally, 
uncertain tax treatments are assessed on an individual basis, except 
where they are expected to be settled collectively. It is assumed that 
taxing authorities will examine positions taken if they have the right to 
do so and that they have full knowledge of the relevant information. A 
change in estimate of the likelihood of a future outflow and/or in the 
expected amount to be settled would be recognised in income in the 
period in which the change occurs. This requires the application of 
judgement as to the ultimate outcome, which can change over time 
depending on facts and circumstances. Judgements mainly relate to 
transfer pricing, including inter-company financing, interpretation of 
PSCs, expenditure deductible for tax purposes and taxation arising 
on disposal. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is considered 
probable that those assets will be recoverable. This involves an 
assessment of when those assets are likely to reverse, and a judgement 
as to whether or not there will be sufficient taxable profits available 
to offset the assets when they do reverse. This requires assumptions 
regarding future profitability and is therefore inherently uncertain. To 
the extent assumptions regarding future profitability change, there can 
be an increase or decrease in the amounts recognised in respect of 
deferred tax assets as well as in the amounts recognised in income 
in the period in which the change occurs. 
Taxation information, including charges and deferred tax assets 
and liabilities, is presented in Note 16. Income taxes include taxes 
at higher rates levied on income from certain Integrated Gas and 
Upstream activities. 
RETIREMENT BENEFITS 
Benefits in the form of retirement pensions and healthcare and life 
insurance are provided to certain employees and retirees under defined 
benefit and defined contribution plans. 
Obligations under defined benefit plans are calculated annually by 
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method, which takes 
into account employees’ years of service and, for pensions, average or 
final pensionable remuneration, and are discounted to their present value 
using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds denominated in the 
currency in which the benefits will be paid and of a duration consistent 
with the plan obligations. Where plans are funded, payments are made to 
independently managed trusts; assets held by those trusts are measured 
at fair value. Defined benefit plan surpluses are recognised as assets to 
the extent that they are considered recoverable, which is generally by way 
of a refund or lower future employer contributions. 
The amounts recognised in income in respect of defined benefit plans 
mainly comprise service cost and net interest. Service cost comprises 
principally the increase in the present value of the obligation for benefits 
resulting from employee service during the period (current service cost) 
and also amounts relating to past service and settlements or amendments 
of plans. Plan amendments are changes to benefits and are generally 
recognised when all legal and regulatory approvals have been received 
and the effects have been communicated to members. Net interest is 
calculated using the net defined benefit liability or asset matched against 
the discount rate yield curve at the beginning of each year for each plan. 
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability or asset resulting 
from actuarial gains and losses, and the return on plan assets excluding 
the amount recognised in income, are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. 
For defined contribution plans, pension expense represents the amount 
of employer contributions payable for the period. 
Significant judgements and estimates 
Defined benefit obligations and plan assets, and the resulting liabilities 
and assets that are recognised, are subject to significant volatility as 
actuarial assumptions regarding future outcomes and market values 
change. Substantial judgement is required in determining the actuarial 
assumptions, which vary for the different plans to reflect local 
conditions but are determined under a common process in consultation 
with independent actuaries. The assumptions applied in respect of 
each plan are reviewed annually and adjusted where necessary to 
reflect changes in experience and actuarial recommendations. 
Information about the amounts reported in respect of defined benefit 
pension plans, assumptions applicable to the principal plans and their 
sensitivity to changes are presented in Note 17 . 
PROVISIONS 
Provisions are recognised at the balance sheet date at management’s 
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation. 
Non-current amounts are discounted at a rate intended to reflect the time 
value of money. The carrying amounts of provisions are regularly reviewed 
and adjusted for new facts or changes in law or technology. 
Provisions for decommissioning and restoration costs, which arise 
principally in connection with hydrocarbon production facilities and 
pipelines, are measured on the basis of current requirements, technology 
and price levels; the present value is calculated using amounts discounted 
over the useful economic life of the assets. The liability is recognised 
(together with a corresponding amount as part of the related property, 
plant and equipment) once an obligation crystallises in the period when 
a reasonable estimate can be made. The effects of changes resulting 
from revisions to the timing or the amount of the original estimate of the 
provision are reflected on a prospective basis, generally by adjustment 
to the carrying amount of the related property, plant and equipment. 
However, where there is no related asset, or the change reduces the 
carrying amount to nil, the effect, or the amount in excess of the 
reduction in the related asset to nil, is recognised in income. 
Redundancy provisions are recognised when a detailed formal plan 
identifies the business or part of the business concerned, the location and 
number of employees affected, a detailed estimate of the associated costs 
and an appropriate timeline, and the employees affected have been 
notified of the plan’s main features. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

201
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Other provisions are recognised in income in the period in which an 
obligation arises and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Provisions 
are measured based on current legal requirements and existing 
technology where applicable. Recognition of any joint and several liability 
is based on management’s best estimate of the final pro rata share of the 
liability. Provisions are determined independently of expected insurance 
recoveries. Recoveries are recognised when virtually certain of realisation. 
Significant estimates
Estimates of provisions for future decommissioning and restoration 
costs are recognised and based on current legal and constructive 
requirements, technology and price levels. Because actual outflows 
can differ from estimates due to changes in laws, regulations, public 
expectations, technology, prices and conditions, and can take place 
many years in the future, the carrying amounts of provisions are 
regularly reviewed and adjusted to take account of such changes. 
The discount rate applied is reviewed annually. 
Information about decommissioning and restoration provisions is 
presented in Note 18.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (from January 1, 2018) 
Financial assets and liabilities are presented separately in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet except where there is a legally enforceable 
right of offset and Shell has the intention to settle on a net basis or realise 
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
Financial Assets 
Financial assets are classified at initial recognition and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive 
income or fair value through profit or loss. The classification of financial 
assets is determined by the contractual cash flows and where applicable 
the business model for managing the financial assets. 
A financial asset is measured at amortised cost, if the objective of the 
business model is to hold the financial asset in order to collect contractual 
cash flows and the contractual terms give rise to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest. It is initially recognised at fair value 
plus or minus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or issue of the financial asset. Subsequently the financial asset 
is measured using the effective interest method less any impairment. Gains 
and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, 
modified or impaired. 
All equity instruments and other debt instruments are recognised at fair 
value. For equity instruments, on initial recognition, an irrevocable election 
(on an instrument-by-instrument basis) can be made to designate these as 
at fair value through other comprehensive income instead of fair value 
through profit and loss. Dividends received on equity instruments are 
recognised as other income in profit or loss when the right of payment 
has been established, except when Shell benefits from such proceeds 
as a recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case, 
such gains are recorded in other comprehensive income. 
Investments in securities 
Investments in securities (“securities”) comprise equity and debt securities. 
Equity securities are carried at fair value. Generally, unrealised holding 
gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income. On sale, 
net gains and losses previously accumulated in other comprehensive 
income are transferred to retained earnings. Debt securities are generally 
carried at fair value with unrealised holding gains and losses recognised in 
other comprehensive income. On sale, net gains and losses previously 
accumulated in other comprehensive income are recognised in income. 
Impairment of financial assets 
The expected credit loss model is applied for recognition and 
measurement of impairments in financial assets measured at amortised 
cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income. The expected 
credit loss model is also applied for financial guarantee contracts to which 
IFRS 9 applies and are not accounted for at fair value through profit or 
loss. The loss allowance for the financial asset is measured at an amount 
equal to the 12-month expected credit losses. If the credit risk on the 
financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition, the loss 
allowance for the financial asset is measured at an amount equal to the 
lifetime expected credit losses. Changes in loss allowances are recognised 
in profit and loss. For trade receivables, a simplified impairment approach 
is applied recognising expected lifetime losses from initial recognition. 
Financial Liabilities 
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, unless they are 
required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss, such as 
instruments held for trading, or Shell has opted to measure them at fair 
value through profit or loss. Debt and trade payables are recognised 
initially at fair value based on amounts exchanged, net of transaction 
costs, and subsequently at amortised cost except for fixed rate debt 
subject to fair value hedging which is remeasured for the hedged risk (see 
below). Interest expense on debt is accounted for using the effective 
interest method, and other than interest capitalised, is recognised in 
income. For financial liabilities that are measured under the fair value 
option, the change in the fair value related to own credit risk is recognised 
in other comprehensive income. The remaining fair value change is 
recognised to fair value through profit and loss. 
Derivative contracts and hedges 
Derivative contracts are used in the management of interest rate risk, 
foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk, and foreign currency cash 
balances. Derivatives that are not closely related to the host contract in 
terms of economic characteristics and risks of which the host contract 
is not a financial asset, are separated from their host contract and 
recognised at fair value with the associated gains and losses 
recognised in income. 
Certain derivative contracts qualify and are designated either as a “fair 
value” hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised asset or liability 
or an unrecognised firm commitment or as a “cash flow” hedge for the 
change in cash flows to be received or paid relating to a recognised 
asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction. 
Financial Statements

202
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
2A – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, 
JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES continued
A change in the fair value of a fair value hedge is recognised in income, 
together with the consequential adjustment to the carrying amount of the 
hedged item. The effective portion of a change in fair value of a derivative 
contract designated as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other 
comprehensive income until the hedged transaction occurs; any ineffective 
portion is recognised in income. Where the hedged item is a non-financial 
asset or liability, the amount in accumulated other comprehensive income 
is transferred to the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability 
(reclassified to the balance sheet); for other hedged items, the amount in 
accumulated other comprehensive income is reclassified to income when 
the hedged transaction affects income. 
The effective portion of a change due to retranslation at quarter-end 
exchange rates in the carrying amount of debt and the principal amount 
of derivative contracts used to hedge net investments in foreign operations 
is recognised in other comprehensive income until the related investment is 
sold or liquidated; any ineffective portion is recognised in income. 
All relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items are 
documented, as well as risk management objectives and strategies 
for undertaking hedge transactions. The effectiveness of hedges is also 
continually assessed and hedge accounting is discontinued when there 
is a change in the risk management strategy. 
Unless designated as hedging instruments, contracts to sell or purchase 
non-financial items that can be settled net as if the contracts were financial 
instruments and that do not meet expected own use requirements 
(typically, forward sale and purchase contracts for commodities in trading 
operations), and contracts that are or contain written options, are 
recognised at fair value; associated gains and losses are recognised in 
income. 
Derivatives that are held primarily for the purpose of trading are 
presented as current in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (prior to January 1, 2018) 
Financial assets and liabilities are presented separately in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet except where there is a legally enforceable 
right of offset and Shell has the intention to settle on a net basis or realise 
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
Financial assets 
Investments in securities 
Investments in securities (also referred to as “securities”) comprise equity 
and debt securities classified on initial recognition as available-for-sale 
and are carried at fair value, except where their fair value cannot be 
measured reliably, in which case they are carried at cost, less any 
impairment. Unrealised holding gains and losses other than impairments 
are recognised in other comprehensive income, except for translation 
differences arising on foreign currency debt securities, which are 
recognised in income. On maturity or sale, net gains and losses previously 
deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income are recognised in 
income. 
Interest income on debt securities is recognised in income using the 
effective interest method. Dividends on equity securities are recognised in 
income when receivable. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, including 
offsetting bank overdrafts, short-term bank deposits, money market funds, 
reverse repos and similar instruments that have a maturity of three months 
or less at the date of purchase. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value based on amounts 
exchanged and subsequently at amortised cost less any impairment. 
Financial liabilities 
Debt and trade payables are recognised initially at fair value based on 
amounts exchanged, net of transaction costs, and subsequently at 
amortised cost except for fixed rate debt subject to fair value hedging 
which is remeasured for the hedged risk (see below). Interest expense on 
debt is accounted for using the effective interest method and, other than 
interest capitalised, is recognised in income. 
Derivative contracts and hedges 
Derivative contracts are used in the management of interest rate risk, foreign 
exchange risk and commodity price risk, and in the management of foreign 
currency cash balances. These contracts are recognised at fair value. 
Certain derivative contracts qualify and are designated either as a “fair 
value” hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised asset or liability 
or an unrecognised firm commitment or as a “cash flow” hedge of the 
change in cash flows to be received or paid relating to a recognised asset 
or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction. 
A change in the fair value of a hedging instrument designated as a fair 
value hedge is recognised in income, together with the consequential 
adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item. The effective 
portion of a change in fair value of a derivative contract designated as a 
cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income until the 
hedged transaction occurs; any ineffective portion is recognised in 
income. Where the hedged item is a non-financial asset or liability, the 
amount in accumulated other comprehensive income is transferred to the 
initial carrying amount of the asset or liability (reclassified to the balance 
sheet); for other hedged items, the amount in accumulated other 
comprehensive income is reclassified to income when the hedged 
transaction affects income. 
The effective portion of a change due to retranslation at quarter-end 
exchange rates in the carrying amount of debt and the principal amount 
of derivative contracts used to hedge net investments in foreign operations 
is recognised in other comprehensive income until the related investment is 
sold or liquidated; any ineffective portion is recognised in income. 
All relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items are 
documented, as well as risk management objectives and strategies for 
undertaking hedge transactions. The effectiveness of hedges is also 
continually assessed and hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedge 
ceases to be highly effective. 
Gains and losses on derivative contracts not qualifying and designated as 
hedges, including forward sale and purchase contracts for commodities in 
trading operations that may be settled by the physical delivery or receipt 
of the commodity, are recognised in income. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

203
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Unless designated as hedging instruments, contracts to sell or purchase 
non-financial items that can be settled net as if the contracts were financial 
instruments and that do not meet expected own use requirements (typically, 
forward sale and purchase contracts for commodities in trading operations), 
and contracts that are or contain written options, are recognised at fair 
value; associated gains and losses are recognised in income. 
Derivatives embedded within contracts that are not already required to 
be recognised at fair value, and that are not closely related to the host 
contract in terms of economic characteristics and risks, are separated 
from their host contract and recognised at fair value; associated gains 
and losses are recognised in income. 
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
Fair value measurements are estimates of the amounts for which assets 
or liabilities could be transferred at the measurement date, based on 
the assumption that such transfers take place between participants in 
principal markets and, where applicable, taking highest and best 
use into account.
Judgements and estimates
Where available, fair value measurements are derived from prices 
quoted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. In the 
absence of such information, other observable inputs are used to 
estimate fair value. Inputs derived from external sources are 
corroborated or otherwise verified, as appropriate. In the absence of 
publicly available information, fair value is determined using estimation 
techniques that take into account market perspectives relevant to the 
asset or liability, in as far as they can reasonably be ascertained, 
based on predominantly unobservable inputs. For derivative contracts 
where publicly available information is not available, fair value 
estimations are generally determined using models and other valuation 
methods, the key inputs for which include future prices, volatility, 
price correlation, counterparty credit risk and market liquidity, as 
appropriate; for other assets and liabilities, fair value estimations 
are generally based on the net present value of expected future 
cash flows. 
SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS 
The fair value of share-based compensation expense arising from the 
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) and the Long-term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) 
– Shell’s main equity-settled plans – is estimated using a Monte Carlo 
option pricing model and is recognised in income from the date of grant 
over the vesting period with a corresponding increase directly in equity. 
The model projects and averages the results for a range of potential 
outcomes for the vesting conditions, the principal assumptions for which 
are the share price volatility and dividend yields for Shell and four of its 
main competitors over the last three years and the last 10 years. Prior to 
the adoption of the IFRS 2 amendments in 2018, changes in the fair value 
of share-based compensation for cash-settled plans were recognised in 
income with a corresponding change in liabilities. 
SHARES HELD IN TRUST 
Shares in the Company, which are held by employee share ownership 
trusts and trust-like entities, are not included in assets but are reflected at 
cost as a deduction from equity as shares held in trust. 
ACQUISITIONS AND SALES OF INTERESTS IN A BUSINESS 
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed when control is obtained over a 
business, and when an interest or an additional interest is acquired in a 
joint operation which is a business, are recognised at their fair value at the 
date of the acquisition; the amount of the purchase consideration above 
this value is recognised as goodwill. When control is obtained, any 
non-controlling interest is recognised as the proportionate share of the 
identifiable net assets. The acquisition of a non-controlling interest in a 
subsidiary and the sale of an interest while retaining control are accounted 
for as transactions within equity. The difference between the purchase 
consideration or sale proceeds after tax and the relevant proportion of the 
non-controlling interest, measured by reference to the carrying amount of 
the interest’s net assets at the date of acquisition or sale, is recognised in 
retained earnings as a movement in equity attributable to Royal Dutch 
Shell plc shareholders. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME PRESENTATION 
Purchases reflect all costs related to the acquisition of inventories and the 
effects of the changes therein, and include associated costs incurred in 
conversion into finished or intermediate products. Production and 
manufacturing expenses are the costs of operating, maintaining and 
managing production and manufacturing assets. Selling, distribution and 
administrative expenses include direct and indirect costs of marketing and 
selling products. 
2B – CHANGES TO IFRS NOT YET ADOPTED
Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“IBOR”) Reform – Phase 1 
Amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (“IFRS 9”) and IFRS 7 
Financial Instruments: Disclosures (“IFRS 7”) were issued in September 
2019. The amendments contain a temporary exception from applying 
specific hedge accounting requirements pre-IBOR reform (Phase 1). 
Further amendments to IFRS standards (Phase 2) are expected to 
address potential financial reporting implications when an existing 
interest rate benchmark is replaced with an alternative.
Shell’s fixed rate debt hedged to floating rate will be affected by the 
market-wide replacement of London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) 
to alternative risk-free reference rates, most significantly by reform of 
dollar LIBOR.
The majority of Shell’s debt related interest rate and currency swaps 
were designated in fair value hedge relationships at December 31, 2019. 
In relation to the required prospective assessment of the existence of an 
economic relationship between the hedged items and hedging instruments 
for these hedge relationships, Shell will apply the temporary exception in 
IFRS 9 on hedge relationships directly affected by the IBOR reform. 
By applying the exception, Shell anticipates that the interest rate 
benchmark on which the hedged risk is based is not altered as 
a result of the IBOR reform. 
The notional amount of hedging instruments designated in hedge 
relationships affected by the reform, at December 31, 2019, was 
$31,823 million. 
A Group-wide project is in progress to manage the transition to 
alternative benchmark rates. 
Financial Statements

204
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
2B – CHANGES TO IFRS NOT YET ADOPTED continued
IFRS 17 Insurance contracts (“IFRS 17”) 
IFRS 17 was issued in 2017 , and is currently envisaged to become effective 
for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2021 (the 
IASB is presently reviewing the effective date, with a potential extension 
by one or two years). The IFRS 17 model combines a current balance sheet 
measurement of insurance contracts with recognition of profit over the 
period that services are provided. The general model in the standard 
requires insurance contract liabilities to be measured using probability-
weighted current estimates of future cash flows, an adjustment for risk, and 
a contractual service margin representing the profit expected from fulfilling 
the contracts. Effects of changes in the estimates of future cash flows and 
the risk adjustment relating to future services are recognised over the 
period services are provided rather than immediately in profit or loss. Shell 
is in the process of evaluating the initial impact of this pronouncement. 
3 – ADOPTION OF IFRS 16 
LEASES 
IFRS 16 was adopted as from January 1, 2019. All operating lease 
contracts, with limited exceptions, were recognised on the balance sheet 
by recognising right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities at the 
transition date. Shell applied the modified retrospective transition method, 
and consequently comparative information is not restated. As a practical 
expedient, no reassessment was performed of contracts that were 
previously identified as leases and contracts that were not previously 
identified as containing a lease applying IAS 17 Leases (“IAS 17”) and 
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease. At the 
adoption date, additional lease liabilities were recognised for leases 
previously classified as operating leases applying IAS 17 . These lease 
liabilities were measured at the present value of the remaining lease 
payments and discounted using entity-specific incremental borrowing 
rates at January 1, 2019. In general, a corresponding right-of-use asset 
was recognised for an amount equal to each lease liability, adjusted by 
the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments relating to the 
specific lease contract, as recognised on the balance sheet at December 
31, 2018. Provisions for onerous lease contracts at December 31, 2018 
were adjusted to the respective right-of-use assets recognised at January 
1, 2019. As a practical expedient the recognition exemption for leases with 
a remaining term of less than 12 months from the adoption date was 
applied upon adoption.
At the transition date, the remaining lease payments were discounted, 
as required under the transition approach chosen, using the incremental 
borrowing rate as per the transition date of January 1, 2019. To determine 
the incremental borrowing rate for each lease contract, a risk-free rate at 
transition date was applied, adjusted for other factors such as the credit 
rating of the entity that entered into the lease contract, a country risk 
premium, the impact of currency, an asset specific element and the term 
the lease contract. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate 
applied upon transition was 7 .2%.
Compared with the previous accounting for operating leases under IAS 17 , 
the application of the new standard has a significant impact on the 
classification of expenditures and cash flows. It also impacts the timing of 
expenses recognised in the statement of income. With effect from 2019, 
expenses related to leases previously classified as operating leases are 
presented under ‘Depreciation, depletion and amortisation’ and ‘Interest 
expense’. Before 2019, these were mainly included in ‘Purchases, 
Production and manufacturing expenses’, and ‘Selling, distribution and 
administrative expenses’. Payments related to leases previously classified 
as operating leases are presented under ‘Cash flow from financing 
activities’ (before 2019 these were included in ‘Cash flow from operating 
activities’ and ‘Cash flow from investing activities’). 
The adoption of the new standard had an accumulated impact at January 
1, 2019 of $4 million on equity following the recognition of lease liabilities 
of $16.0 billion and additional right-of-use assets of $15.6 billion and 
reclassifications mainly related to pre-paid leases and onerous contracts 
previously recognised. 
The reconciliation of differences between the operating lease 
commitments disclosed under the prior standard and the additional 
lease liabilities recognised on the balance sheet at January 1, 2019 
is as follows: 
Lease liabilities reconciliation
$ million
Undiscounted future minimum lease payments under operating leases at December 31, 2018 24,219
Impact of discounting (5,167)
Leases not yet commenced at January 1, 2019 (2,586)
Short-term leases (277)
Long-term leases expiring before December 31, 2019 (192)
Other reconciling items (net) 40
Additional lease liability at January 1, 2019 16,037
Finance lease liability at December 31, 2018 14,026
Total lease liability at January 1, 2019 30,063
Financial Statements

205
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
The detailed impact on the balance sheet at January 1, 2019, is as follows:
Consolidated Balance Sheet
$ million
Dec 31, 2018 IFRS 16 impact Jan 1, 2019
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 23,586 – 23,586
Property, plant and equipment 223,175 15,558 238,733
Joint ventures and associates 25,329 – 25,329
Investments in securities 3,074 – 3,074
Deferred tax 12,097 – 12,097
Retirement benefits 6,051 – 6,051
Trade and other receivables [A] 7, 8 2 6 (814) 7, 0 12
Derivative financial instruments 574 – 574
301,712 14,744 316,456
Current assets
Inventories 21,117 – 21,117
Trade and other receivables 42,431 69 42,500
Derivative financial instruments 7,1 9 3 – 7,1 9 3
Cash and cash equivalents 26,741 – 26,741
9 7, 4 8 2 69 9 7, 551
Total assets 399,194 14,813 414,007
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Debt 66,690 13,125 79,815
Trade and other payables [B] 2,735 (540) 2,195
Derivative financial instruments 1,399 – 1,399
Deferred tax 14,837 – 14,837
Retirement benefits 11,653 – 11,653
Decommissioning and other provisions [C] 21,533 (347) 21,186
118,847 12,238 131,085
Current liabilities
Debt 10,134 2,912 13,046
Trade and other payables 48,888 (23) 48,865
Derivative financial instruments 7,1 8 4 – 7,1 8 4
Taxes payable 7, 4 9 7 – 7, 4 9 7
Retirement benefits 451 – 451
Decommissioning and other provisions [C] 3,659 (318) 3,341
7 7, 813 2,571 80,384
Total liabilities 196,660 14,809 211,469
Equity
Share capital 685 – 685
Shares held in trust (1,260) – (1,260)
Other reserves 16,615 – 16,615
Retained earnings 182,606 4 182,610
Equity attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 198,646 4 198,650
Non-controlling interest 3,888 – 3,888
Total equity 202,534 4 202,538
Total liabilities and equity 399,194 14,813 414,007
[A] M ainly in respect of pre-paid leases. 
[B]
 M
ainly related to operating lease contracts that were measured at fair value under IFRS 3 Business Combinations following the acquisition of BG in 2016. 
[C]
 M
ainly in respect of onerous contracts.
Financial Statements

206
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
2019
$ million
Integrated Gas Upstream Downstream Corporate Total
Revenue:
Third-party 41,322 9,965 293,545 45 344,877 [A][B]
Inter-segment 4,280 36,448 1,132 – 41,860
Share of profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates (CCS basis) 1,791 379 1,725 (307) 3,588
Interest and other income, of which: 263 2,180 266 916 3,625
Interest income – – – 899 899
Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets and businesses 282 1,888 297 52 2,519
Other (19) 292 (31) (35) 207
Third-party and inter-segment purchases (CCS basis) 23,498 7,1 6 8 264,966 (6) 295,626
Production and manufacturing expenses 5,768 11,545 9,088 37 26,438
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses 716 48 9,280 449 10,493
Research and development expenses 181 452 329 – 962
Exploration expenses 281 2,073 – – 2,354
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charge, of which: 6,238 17, 0 0 3 5,413 47 28,701
Impairment losses 579 2,576 627 – 3,782 [C]
Impairment reversals – – (190) – (190)[D]
Interest expense 104 534 74 3,978 4,690
Taxation charge/(credit) (CCS basis) 2,242 5,954 1,241 (578) 8,859
CCS earnings 8,628 4,195 6,277 (3,273) 15,827
[A] I ncludes $3,760 million of revenue from sources other than from contracts with customers, which mainly comprises the impact of fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. 
[B]
 I
n March 2019, the IFRS Interpretation Committee (“IFRIC”) finalised an agenda decision regarding 'Physical settlement of contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item (IFRS 9)'. 
This agenda decision has been analysed and will be prospectively implemented from January 1, 2020. The impact will be limited to a reclassification within total revenue.
[C] I
mpairment losses comprise Property, plant and equipment ($3,639 million) and Intangible assets ($143 million).
[D]
 S
ee Note 8.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
4 – SEGMENT INFORMATION 
General Information 
Shell is an international energy company engaged in the principal aspects 
of the oil and gas industry and reports its business through the segments: 
Integrated Gas, Upstream, Downstream, and Corporate. 
The Integrated Gas segment covers liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) 
activities and the conversion of natural gas into gas-to-liquids fuels and 
other products, as well as the New Energies portfolio. It includes natural 
gas exploration and extraction and the operation of the upstream and 
midstream infrastructure necessary to deliver gas to market. It markets and 
trades natural gas, LNG, electricity and carbon-emission rights and also 
markets and sells LNG as a fuel for heavy-duty vehicles and marine vessels. 
Upstream combines the following two operating segments: 1) Upstream, 
which is engaged in the exploration for and extraction of crude oil, natural 
gas and natural gas liquids, and the marketing and transportation of oil 
and gas, and 2) Oil Sands, which is engaged in the extraction of bitumen 
from mined oil sands and conversion into synthetic crude oil. These 
operating segments have similar economic characteristics because 
their earnings are significantly dependent on crude oil and natural 
gas prices and production volumes. 
The Downstream segment is engaged in oil products and chemicals 
manufacturing, marketing and trading activities, that turn crude oil 
and other feedstocks into a range of products which are moved and 
marketed around the world for domestic, industrial and transport use. 
The Corporate segment covers the non-operating activities supporting 
Shell, comprising Shell’s holdings and treasury organisation, its self-
insurance activities and its headquarters and central functions. 
Basis of Segmental Reporting
Sales between segments are based on prices generally equivalent to 
commercially available prices. Third-party revenue and non-current assets 
information by geographical area are based on the country of operation 
of the group subsidiaries that report this information. Separate disclosure 
is provided for the UK as this is the Company’s country of domicile. 
Segment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis 
(“CCS earnings”), which is the earnings measure used by the Chief 
Executive Officer for the purposes of making decisions about allocating 
resources and assessing performance. On this basis, the purchase price 
of volumes sold during the period is based on the current cost of supplies 
during the same period after making allowance for the tax effect. 
CCS earnings therefore exclude the effect of changes in the oil 
price on inventory carrying amounts. 
With the adoption of IFRS 16, the interest expense on leases, formerly 
classified as operating leases, is reported under the Corporate segment, 
while depreciation related to the respective right-of-use assets is reported 
in the segment making use of the assets. This treatment is consistent with 
how formerly classified finance leases were treated. 
Information by segment on a current cost of supplies basis is as follows: 
Financial Statements

207
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
2018
$ million
Integrated Gas Upstream Downstream Corporate Total
Revenue:
Third-party 43,764 9,892 334,680 43 388,379 [A]
Inter-segment 5,031 37, 8 41 917 – 43,789 [B]
Share of profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates (CCS basis) 2,273 285 1,785 (222) 4,121
Interest and other income, of which: 2,230 600 345 896 4,071
Interest income – – – 772 772
Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets and businesses 2,231 712 302 20 3,265
Other (1) (112) 43 104 34
Third-party and inter-segment purchases (CCS basis) 2 7, 7 75 6,144 303,709 1 3 37, 62 9
Production and manufacturing expenses 5,370 11,463 10,294 (157) 26,970
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses 458 200 10,142 560 11,360
Research and development expenses 186 493 307 – 986
Exploration expenses 208 1,132 – – 1,340
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charge, of which: 4,850 13,006 4,064 215 22,135
Impairment losses 200 1,065 424 7 1,696 [C]
Impairment reversals – (1,265) – – (1,265)[D]
Interest expense 212 591 95 2,847 3,745 [E]
Taxation charge/(credit) (CCS basis) 2,795 8,791 1,515 (1,270) 11,831
CCS earnings 11,444 6,798 7, 6 0 1 (1,479) 24,364
[A] I ncludes $3,348 million of revenue from sources other than from contracts with customers, which mainly comprises the impact of fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. 
[B]
 I
nter-segment revenue has been revised to amend for transactions within segments that were previously reported as inter-segment revenue, and vice versa. 
[C] I
mpairment losses comprise Property, plant and equipment ($1,515 million) and Intangible assets ($181 million). 
[D]
 S
ee Note 8. 
[E]
 I
nterest expense has been reclassified between segments compared with prior year.
2017
$ million
Integrated Gas Upstream Downstream Corporate Total
Revenue:
Third-party 32,674 7, 7 2 3 264,731 51 305,179
Inter-segment 4,096 32,469 1,090 – 37, 6 5 5[A]
Share of profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates (CCS basis) 1,714 623 1,956 (129) 4,164
Interest and other income, of which: 687 1,188 154 437 2,466
Interest income – – – 677 677
Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets and businesses 301 1,189 136 14 1,640
Other 386 (1) 18 (254) 149
Third-party and inter-segment purchases (CCS basis) 22,478 5,535 234,321 20 262,354
Production and manufacturing expenses 5,120 12,119 9,519 (106) 26,652
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses 237 5 9,789 478 10,509
Research and development expenses 114 533 275 – 922
Exploration expenses 141 1,804 – – 1,945
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charge, of which: 4,965 17, 3 0 3 3,877 78 26,223
Impairment losses 302 4,118 385 – 4,805 [B]
Impairment reversals (10) (605) – – (615) [C]
Interest expense 248 74 4 109 2,941 4,042
Taxation charge/(credit) (CCS basis) 790 2,409 1,783 (636) 4,346
CCS earnings 5,078 1,551 8,258 (2,416) 12,471
[A] I nter-segment revenue has been revised to amend for transactions within segments that were previously reported as inter-segment revenue, and vice versa. 
[B]
 I
mpairment losses comprise Property, plant and equipment ($4,572 million) and Intangible assets ($233 million). 
[C]
 S
ee Note 8. 
Financial Statements

208
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
4 – SEGMENT INFORMATION continued 
Reconciliation of CCS earnings to income for the period
$ million
2019 2018 2017
CCS earnings 15,827 24,364 12,471
Current cost of supplies adjustment:
Purchases 784 (559) 1,252
Taxation (194) 116 (349)
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 15 (15) 61
605 (458) 964
Income for the period 16,432 23,906 13,435
Information by geographical area is as follows: 
2019
$ million
Europe
Asia, 
Oceania, 
Africa USA
Other 
Americas Total
Third-party revenue, by origin 98,455 [A] 139,916[B] 83,212 23,294 344,877
Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, joint ventures 
and associates at December 31 43,262 [C] 119,732 67,1 0 5 54,544 284,643
[A] I ncludes $41,094 million that originated from the UK. 
[B] I
ncludes $84,282 million that originated from Singapore. 
[C]
 I
ncludes $24,696 million located in the UK. 
2018
$ million
Europe
Asia, 
Oceania, 
Africa USA
Other 
Americas Total
Third-party revenue, by origin 118,960 [A] 153,716 [B] 89,876 25,827 388,379
Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, joint ventures 
and associates at December 31 38,617 [C] 117,12 7 59,625 56,721 272,090
[A] I ncludes $54,659 million that originated from the UK.
[B] I
ncludes $89,811 million that originated from Singapore.
[C]
 I
ncludes $21,863 million located in the UK.
2017
$ million
Europe
Asia, 
Oceania, 
Africa USA
Other 
Americas Total
Third-party revenue, by origin 100,609 [A] 114,683 [B] 66,854 23,033 305,179
Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, joint ventures 
and associates at December 31 41,416 [C]  122,345 55,898 58,828 278,487
[A] I ncludes $49,370 million that originated from the UK. 
[B]
 I
ncludes $62,046 million that originated from Singapore. 
[C]
 I
ncludes $22,734 million located in the UK. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

209
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
5 – INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME 
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Interest income 899 772 677
Dividend income (from investments in equity securities) 23 104 375
Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets and businesses 2,519 3,265 1,640
Net foreign exchange gains/(losses) on financing activities 5 (174) (453)
Other 179 104 227
Total 3,625 4,071 2,466
In 2019, net gains on sale of non-current assets and businesses arose mainly in respect of gains on the sale of Upstream assets in the USA and Denmark, 
as well as Downstream assets in Saudi Arabia and China and Integrated Gas assets in Australia.
In 2018, net gains on sale of non-current assets and businesses arose mainly in respect of gains on the sale of Integrated Gas assets in Thailand, 
Malaysia, Oman and New Zealand, as well as Upstream assets in Iraq and Malaysia and a Downstream divestment in Argentina, partly offset by 
a charge related to the disposal of our Upstream assets in Ireland. 
In 2017 , net gains on sale of non-current assets and businesses arose mainly in respect of gains on the sale of Upstream assets in the UK and the USA 
as well as Downstream assets in Australia and Saudi Arabia, partly offset by a loss on the Motiva transaction. Net foreign exchange losses on financing 
activities in 2017 includes a charge of $545 million from the release of cumulative currency translation differences following the restructuring of funding 
for our North America businesses. 
6 – INTEREST EXPENSE
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Interest incurred and similar charges 4,592 [A] 3,550 3,448
Less: interest capitalised (752) (876) (622)
Other net losses on fair value hedges of debt 132 169 114
Accretion expense 718 902 1,102
Total 4,690 3,745 4,042
[A] I ncludes $2,186 million of interest expenses related to leases of which $1,137 million related to those leases which formerly would have been classified as operating leases (see Note 3).
The rate applied in determining the amount of interest capitalised in 2019 was 4.5% (2018: 4.0%; 2017: 3.0%). The rate increase in 2019 was mainly 
driven by the weighted average rate for leases recognised upon the adoption of IFRS 16 Leases (see Note 3).
7 – INTANGIBLE ASSETS
2019
$ million
Goodwill
LNG off-take  
and sales 
contracts Other Total
Cost
At January 1 14,338 10,365 6,392 31,095
Additions 674 – 586 1,260
Sales, retirements and other movements (46) (154) (122) (322)
Currency translation differences 7 – 10 17
At December 31 14,973 10,211 6,866 32,050
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments
At January 1 622 3,293 3,594 7, 5 0 9
Charge for the year 135 876 354 1,365
Sales, retirements and other movements (1) (155) (172) (328)
Currency translation differences 12 – 6 18
At December 31 768 4,014 3,782 8,564
Carrying amount at December 31 14,205 6,197 3,084 23,486
Financial Statements

210
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
7 – INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued
2018
$ million
Goodwill
LNG off-take  
and sales 
contracts Other Total
Cost
At January 1 14,154 10,429 6,106 30,689
Additions 331 – 659 990
Sales, retirements and other movements (75) (64) (253) (392)
Currency translation differences (72) – (120) (192)
At December 31 14,338 10,365 6,392 31,095
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments
At January 1 492 2,432 3,585 6,509
Charge for the year 173 925 370 1,468
Sales, retirements and other movements (21) (64) (275) (360)
Currency translation differences (22) – (86) (108)
At December 31 622 3,293 3,594 7, 5 0 9
Carrying amount at December 31 13,716 7, 07 2 2,798 23,586
Goodwill at December 31, 2019, principally related to the acquisition of BG Group plc in 2016, allocated to Integrated Gas ($4,897 million) 
and Upstream ($5,967 million) at the operating segment level, and to Pennzoil-Quaker State Company ($1,609 million), a lubricants business in the 
Downstream segment based largely in North America. Information on annual impairment testing is included in Note 8. 
8 – PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
2019
$ million
Exploration and production Manufacturing, 
supply and 
distribution Other Total
Exploration 
and evaluation Production
Cost
At January 1 (as previously published) 21,181 280,381 91,235 22,040 414,837
Impact of IFRS 16 [A] – 4,871 6,459 4,228 15,558
At January 1 (as revised) 21,181 285,252 9 7, 6 94 26,268 430,395
Additions 2,659 11,374 10,945 3,145 28,123
Sales, retirements and other movements (5,442) (11,253) (3,683) (456) (20,834)
Currency translation differences 198 1,293 (139) 124 1,476
At December 31 18,596 286,666 104,817 29,081 439,160
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments
At January 1 3,287 131,692 46,218 10,465 191,662
Charge for the year 1,096 19,346 5,742 1,573 2 7, 75 7
Sales, retirements and other movements (440) (15,567) (2,981) (437) (19,425)
Currency translation differences 67 829 (107) 28 817
At December 31 4,010 136,300 48,872 11,629 200,811
Carrying amount at December 31 14,586 150,366 55,945 17, 4 52 238,349
[A] S ee Note 3. 
Financial Statements

211
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
2018
$ million
Exploration and production Manufacturing, 
supply and 
distribution Other Total
Exploration 
and evaluation Production
Cost
At January 1 22,510 292,256 86,948 22,355 424,069
Additions 3,514 12,596 6,438 1,594 24,142
Sales, retirements and other movements (4,443) (19,643) (667) (814) (25,567)
Currency translation differences (400) (4,828) (1,484) (1,095) ( 7, 8 07 )
At December 31 21,181 280,381 91,235 22,040 414,837
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments
At January 1 5,060 1 37, 52 5 44,483 10,621 1 9 7, 6 8 9
Charge for the year (979) 16,551 4,000 1,095 20,667
Sales, retirements and other movements (608) (19,631) (1,353) (756) (22,348)
Currency translation differences (186) (2,753) (912) (495) (4,346)
At December 31 3,287 131,692 46,218 10,465 191,662
Carrying amount at December 31 17, 8 94 148,689 45,017 11,575 223,175
Sales, retirements and other movements in 2019 related to sales of Shell’s 36.8% non-operating interest in the Danish Underground Consortium, 
its 50% interest in the SASREF joint venture in Saudi Arabia and its 22.45% non-operating interest in the Caesar-Tonga asset in the Gulf of Mexico. 
The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2019, included $27 ,779 million (2018: $33,451 million) of assets under 
construction. This amount excludes exploration and evaluation assets. The carrying amount at December 31, 2019, also included $1,401 million of assets 
classified as held for sale (2018: $705 million). 
The carrying amount of exploration and production assets at December 31, 2019, included rights and concessions in respect of proved and unproved 
properties of $14,355 million (2018: $15,860 million). Exploration and evaluation assets principally comprise rights and concessions in respect of 
unproved properties and capitalised exploration drilling costs. 
The carrying amount of assets at December 31, 2019, for which an alternative reserves base was applied in the calculation of the depreciation charge 
(see Note 2A), was $173 million (2018: $5,838 million). If no alternative reserves base had been used, the pre-tax depreciation charge for the year 
ended December 31, 2019, would have been $77 million higher (2018: $1,003 million, 2017: $5,558 million). 
Contractual commitments for the purchase and lease of property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2019, amounted to $5,519 million. 
In 2018, the contractual commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment amounted to $4,783 million.
Financial Statements

212
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
8 – PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued
Within property, plant and equipment the following amounts relate to leases:
Right-of-use assets
$ million
Exploration and production
Exploration and 
evaluation Production
Manufacturing, 
supply and 
distribution Other Total
Cost
At January 1 (as previously published) – 11,508 4,259 789 16,556
Impact of IFRS 16 [A] – 4,871 6,459 4,228 15,558
At January 1 (as revised) – 16,379 10,718 5,017 32,114
Additions 5 664 3,124 917 4,710
Sales, retirements and other movements – (1,867) (268) (157) (2,292)
Currency translation differences – 37 – (18) 19
At December 31 5 15,213 13,574 5,759 34,551
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments
At January 1 – 5,209 1,110 589 6,908
Charge for the year – 1,632 1,855 703 4,190
Sales, retirements and other movements – (1,091) (30) (128) (1,249)
Currency translation differences – 11 1 – 12
At December 31 – 5,761 2,936 1,164 9,861
Carrying amount at December 31 5 9,452 10,638 4,595 24,690
[A] U p to and including 2018, Shell recognised lease assets and liabilities that were classified as finance leases under IAS 17 Leases  (see Note 3).
Impairments
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Impairment losses [A]
Exploration and production 2,983 1,066 4,187
Manufacturing, supply and distribution 654 441 376
Other 2 8 9
Total 3,639 1,515 4,572
Impairment reversals [A]
Exploration and production – 1,265 615
Manufacturing, supply and distribution 190 – –
Total 190 1,265 615
[A] S ee Note 4. 
Impairment losses in 2019 were mainly triggered by the revision to Shell’s long-term oil and gas price outlook and change to future capital expenditure 
plans. The impairment losses related primarily to Upstream shale and deep-water properties in North and South America, in Integrated Gas to 
properties in Australia and in Downstream to the refining portfolio. Impairment losses in 2018 were mainly in Upstream, and principally related to the 
disposal of Shell’s interests in Norway and Ireland and related to assets in the Gulf of Mexico. Impairment reversals in 2018 were mainly related to 
assets in North America. Impairment losses in 2017 were mainly in Upstream, and principally related to the disposal of interests in Canada and interests 
in Ireland classified as held for sale.
For impairment testing purposes, the respective carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets were compared with their 
value in use. Cash flow projections used in the determination of value in use were made using management’s forecasts of commodity prices, market 
supply and demand, potential costs associated with operational GHG emissions, product margins including forecast refining margins and expected 
production volumes (see Note 2A). These cash flows were adjusted for the risks specific to the assets, and therefore these risks were not included in the 
determination of the discount rate applied. The nominal pre-tax rate applied in 2019 was 6% (2018: 6%; 2017: 6%). 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

213
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Oil and gas price assumptions applied for impairment testing are reviewed and, where necessary, adjusted on a periodic basis. Reviews include 
comparison with available market data and forecasts that reflect developments in demand such as global economic growth, technology efficiency, 
policy measures and, in supply, consideration of investment and resource potential, cost of development of new supply, and behaviour of major resource 
holders. The near-term commodity price assumptions applied in impairment testing in 2019 were as follows: 
Commodity price assumptions [A]
2020 2021 2022
Brent crude oil ($/b) 60 60 60
Henry Hub natural gas ($/MMBtu) 2.75 2.75 3.00
[A] M oney of the day. 
For periods after 2022, the real terms long-term price assumptions applied were $60 per barrel (/b) (2018: $70/b after 2021) for Brent crude oil and 
$3.00 per million British thermal units (/MMBtu) (2018: $3.50/MMBtu after 2021) for Henry Hub natural gas. 
Capitalised exploration drilling costs
$ million
2019 2018 2017
At January 1 6,629 6,981 7,91 0
Additions pending determination of proved reserves 2,036 2,588 1,708
Amounts charged to expense (1,218) (449) (897)
Reclassifications to productive wells on determination of proved reserves (1,655) (2,461) (1,894)
Other movements (124) (30) 154
At December 31 5,668 6,629 6,981
Projects Wells
Number $ million Number $ million
Between 1 and 5 years 45 3,195 150 2,117
Between 6 and 10 years 10 961 74 1,746
Between 11 and 15 years 5 237 25 495
Between 16 and 20 years – – 2 35
Total 60 4,393 251 4,393
Exploration drilling costs capitalised for periods greater than one year at December 31, 2019, analysed according to the most recent year of activity, 
are presented in the table above. They comprise $284 million relating to five projects where drilling activities were under way or firmly planned for 
the future, and $4,109 million relating to 55 projects awaiting development concepts. 
9 – JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES
Shell share of comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Joint 
ventures Associates Total
Joint 
ventures Associates Total
Joint 
ventures Associates Total
Income for the period 1,121 2,483 3,604 1,307 2,799 4,106 2,102 2,123 4,225
Other comprehensive 
(loss)/income for the period (82) 8 (74) 172 11 183 164 6 170
Comprehensive income for the period 1,039 2,491 3,530 1,479 2,810 4,289 2,266 2,129 4,395
Carrying amount of interests in joint ventures and associates
$ million
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Joint 
ventures Associates Total
Joint 
ventures Associates Total
Net assets 13,426 9,382 22,808 14,263 11,066 25,329
Financial Statements

214
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
9 – JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES continued
Transactions with joint ventures and associates
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Sales and charges to joint ventures and associates 7, 74 8 8,270 13,121
Purchases and charges from joint ventures and associates 9,573 11,212 10,680
These transactions principally comprise sales and purchases of goods and services in the ordinary course of business. Related balances outstanding at 
December 31, 2019, and 2018, are presented in Notes 11 and 15. 
Other arrangements in respect of joint ventures and associates
$ million
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Commitments to make purchases from joint ventures and associates [A] 2,177 1,823 [B]
Commitments to provide debt or equity funding to joint ventures and associates 897 638
[A] C ommitments to make purchases from joint ventures and associates mainly relate to contracts associated with LNG processing fees and transportation capacity. Shell has other purchase 
obligations related to joint ventures and associates that are not fixed or determinable and are principally intended to be resold in a short period of time through sales agreements with third parties. 
These include long-term LNG and natural gas purchase commitments and commitments to purchase refined products or crude oil at market prices. 
[B]
 A
s revised to include commitments of $569 million.
10 – INVESTMENTS IN SECURITIES
Investment in securities
$ million
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Equity securities: 1,437 1,823
Equity securities at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,437 1,823
Debt securities: 1,552 1,251
Debt securities at amortised cost 11 8
Debt securities at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,086 953
Debt securities at fair value through profit and loss 455 290
Total 2,989 3,074
At fair value
Measured by reference to prices in active markets for identical assets 1,725 1,873
Measured using predominantly unobservable inputs 1,253 1,193
Total 2,978 3,066
At cost 11 8
Total 2,989 3,074
Equity securities at December 31, 2019, principally comprised interests below 5%, in various investments. Debt securities principally comprised a 
portfolio required to be held by the Company’s internal insurance entities as security for their activities.
Investments in securities measured using predominantly unobservable inputs [A]
$ million
2019 2018
At January 1 1,193 1,268
(Losses)/Gains recognised in other comprehensive income (42) 212
Other movements 102 (287)
At December 31 1,253 1,193
[A] B ased on expected dividend flows, adjusted for country and other risks as appropriate and discounted to their present value. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

215
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
11 – TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
 
$ million
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Trade receivables 30,216 – 2 7, 5 41 –
Lease receivables [A] 213 1,528
Other receivables [A] 7, 7 91 4,039 8,543 4,823
Amounts due from joint ventures and associates 912 1,078 992 1,183
Prepayments and deferred charges 4,282 1,440 5,355 1,820
Total 43,414 8,085 42,431 7, 8 2 6
[A] I n 2018 ‘Lease receivables’ were included in ‘Other receivables’. 
The fair value of financial assets included above approximates the carrying amount and was determined from predominantly unobservable inputs. 
Other receivables at December 31, 2019, include receivables from certain governments in their capacity as joint arrangement partners, of $1,209 million 
(2018: $1,449 million), after provisions for impairments, that are overdue in part or in full. Recoverability and timing thereof is subject to uncertainty, 
however, the ultimate risk of default on the carrying amount is considered to be low. Other receivables also include income tax and other tax receivables 
(see Note 16). 
Provisions for impairments deducted from trade and other receivables amounted to $649 million at December 31, 2019 (2018: $790 million).
Shell uses a provision matrix to calculate expected credit losses (“ECLs”) for trade receivables. The provision matrix is initially based on Shell’s historical 
observed default rates. Shell calculates the ECL to adjust the historical credit loss experienced with forward-looking information. The ECL at December 
31, 2019 is $83 million (2018: $23 million) which represents 0.08%-0.27% of all trade receivables. 
A loss allowance provision of $193 million (2018: $243 million) was established, in addition to all other impairments to trade receivables as at 
December 31, 2019, that are outside of the provision matrix calculations.
Lease receivables 
Lease contracts where Shell is the lessor are classified as finance lease or operating lease. Receivables for lease contracts classified as finance 
leases are as follows: 
Finance lease
$ million
Dec 31, 2019
Less than one year 305
Between 1 and 5 years 953
5 years and later 1,019
Total undiscounted lease payments receivable 2,277
Unearned finance income 536
Net investment in the lease 1,741
In addition at December 31, 2019, Shell is entitled to contractual payments under operating leases of $344 million.
Financial Statements

216
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
12 – INVENTORIES
$ million
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Oil, gas and chemicals 22,654 19,516
Materials 1,417 1,601
Total 24,071 21,117
Inventories at December 31, 2019, include write-downs to net realisable value of $546 million (2018: $1,473 million). 
13 – CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
$ million
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Cash 4,168 4,034
Short-term bank deposits 2,665 3,655
Money market funds, reverse repos and other cash equivalents 11,222 19,052
Total 18,055 26,741
Included in cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2019, were amounts totalling $431 million (2018: $443 million as revised) subject to currency 
controls or other legal restrictions. Information about credit risk is presented in Note 19. 
14 – DEBT AND LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
DEBT
Debt
$ million
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Debt 
(excluding 
lease 
liabilities)
Lease 
liabilities [A] Total
Debt 
(excluding 
lease 
liabilities)
Finance lease 
liabilities Total
Short-term debt 3,962 – 3,962 693 – 693
Long-term debt due within 1 year 6,146 4,956 11,102 8,419 1,022 9,441
Current debt 10,108 4,956 15,064 9,112 1,022 10,134
Non-current debt 55,779 25,581 81,360 53,686 13,004 66,690
Total 65,887 30,537 96,424 62,798 14,026 76,824
[A] S ee Note 3.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

217
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Net debt
$ million
Current 
debt
Non-current 
debt
Derivative 
financial 
instruments
Cash and cash 
equivalents 
(see Note 13) Net debt
At January 1, 2019 (as previously published) (10,134) (66,690) (1,345) 26,741 (51,428)
Impact of IFRS 16 [A] (2,912) (13,125) (16,037)
At January 1, 2019 (as revised) (13,046) (79,815) (1,345) 26,741 (67,465)
Cash flow 10,333 (7 ,269) 351 (8,810) (5,395)
Lease additions (971) (3,547) (4,518)
Other movements [B] (11,453) 9,179 453 – (1,821)
Currency translation differences and foreign exchange gains/(losses) 73 92 (183) 124 106
At December 31, 2019 (15,064) (81,360) (724) 18,055 (79,093)
At January 1, 2018 (11,795) (73,870) (591) 20,312 (65,944)
Cash flow 10,392 (2,418) 446 6,878 15,298
Finance lease additions (51) (652) (703)
Other movements (8,939) 9,270 (261) – 70
Currency translation differences and foreign exchange gains/(losses) 259 980 (939) (449) (149)
At December 31, 2018 (10,134) (66,690) (1,345) 26,741 (51,428)
[A] S ee Note 3. 
[B]
 ‘
Other movements’ includes $1,618 million relating to existing leases entered into on behalf of certain joint operations. 
Management’s financial strategy is to manage Shell’s assets and liabilities with the aim that, across the business cycle, ‘cash in’ at least equals ‘cash out’ 
while maintaining a strong balance sheet. 
Gearing is a key measure of Shell’s capital structure and is defined as net debt as a percentage of total capital. Net debt is defined as the sum of current 
and non-current debt, less cash and cash equivalents, adjusted for the fair value of derivative financial instruments used to hedge foreign exchange and 
interest rate risks relating to debt, and associated collateral balances. Across the business cycle, management aims to return to a gearing level within a 
range of 15%-25%.
Gearing
$ million, except where indicated
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 [A]
Net debt 79,093 51,428
Total equity 190,463 202,534
Total capital 269,556 253,962
Gearing 29.3% [B] 20.3%
[A] S hell used the modified retrospective transition method for implementing IFRS 16 Leases  (see Note 3). Comparative information was not restated, and continues to be presented as previously 
reported under IAS 17 Leases. 
[B]
 G
earing increased to 29.3%, at December 31, 2019, comparable with 25.0% on an IAS 17 basis (2018: 20.3%).
Management’s priorities for applying Shell’s cash are the servicing and reduction of debt commitments, payment of dividends, followed by a balance 
of capital investment and share buybacks. Management’s policy is to grow the dollar dividend through time, in line with its view of Shell’s underlying 
earnings and cash flow. 
Shell has access to international debt capital markets via two commercial paper (“CP”) programmes, a Euro medium-term note (“EMTN”) programme 
and a US universal shelf (“US shelf”) registration. Issuances under the CP programmes are supported by a committed credit facility and cash.
Financial Statements

218
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
14 – DEBT AND LEASE ARRANGEMENTS continued
Borrowing facilities and amounts undrawn 
$ million
Facility Amount undrawn
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
CP programmes 20,000 20,000 16,610 20,000
EMTN programme unlimited unlimited N/A N/A
US shelf registration unlimited unlimited N/A N/A
Committed credit facilities 10,000 8,840 10,000 8,840
Under the CP programmes, Shell can issue debt of up to $10 billion with maturities not exceeding 270 days and $10 billion with maturities not 
exceeding 397 days. The EMTN programme is updated each year, most recently in July 2019. In 2019, debt issued under this programme amounted 
to $3 billion (2018: $nil). The US shelf registration provides Shell with the flexibility to issue debt securities, ordinary shares, preferred shares and 
warrants. The registration is updated every three years and was last updated in December 2017 . During 2019, debt totalling $4 billion (2018: $3 billion) 
was issued under the registration. On December 13, 2019, Shell entered into $10 billion revolving credit facilities, which in anticipation of the LIBOR 
reform (see Note 2B), were linked to the new Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”). Under the terms of the facilities, the LIBOR interest rate will be 
replaced by SOFR as early as the first anniversary of the signing date of these revolving credit facilities. The committed credit facilities are available at 
pre-agreed margins, with $2 billion expiring in 2020 and $8 billion expiring in 2024. Each facility includes two one-year extension options at the 
discretion of each lender. The terms and availability are not conditional on Shell’s financial ratios nor its financial credit ratings. The interest and 
fees paid on both facilities are linked to Shell’s progress towards reaching its short-term Net Carbon Footprint intensity target. 
In addition, other subsidiaries have access to undrawn short-term bank facilities totalling $2,784 million at December 31, 2019 (2018: $3,035 million).
The following tables compare contractual cash flows for debt excluding lease liabilities at December 31, with the carrying amount in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet. Contractual amounts reflect the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates; differences from carrying amounts reflect the effects of 
discounting, premiums and, where fair value hedge accounting is applied, fair value adjustments. Interest is estimated assuming interest rates applicable 
to variable rate debt remain constant and there is no change in aggregate principal amounts of debt other than repayment at scheduled maturity, as 
reflected in the table.
2019
$ million
Contractual payments
Difference 
from carrying  
amount
Carrying 
amount
Less than  
1 year
Between 
1 and 2 
years
Between 
2 and 3
Between 
3 and 4 
years
Between 
4 and 5 
years
5 years 
and later Total
Commercial paper 3,390 – – – – – 3,390 (38) 3,352
Bonds 5,900 4,971 4,392 4,326 2,091 38,323 60,003 694 60,697
Bank and other borrowings 859 425 56 71 15 412 1,838 – 1,838
Total (excluding interest) 10,149 5,396 4,448 4,397 2,106 38,735 65,231 656 65,887
Interest 1,665 1,559 1,430 1,357 1,263 14,618 21,892
2018
$ million
Contractual payments
Difference 
from carrying  
amount
Carrying 
amount
Less than  
1 year
Between 
1 and 2 
years
Between 
2 and 3
Between 
3 and 4 
years
Between 
4 and 5 
years
5 years 
and later Total
Bonds 8,163 5,900 4,993 4,458 4,312 33,162 60,988 181 61,169
Bank and other borrowings 945 39 209 50 27 359 1,629 – 1,629
Total (excluding interest) 9,108 5,939 5,202 4,508 4,339 33,521 62,617 181 62,798
Interest 1,780 1,555 1,426 1,319 1,244 14,406 21,730
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

219
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Interest rate swaps have been entered into against certain fixed rate debt affecting the effective interest rate on these balances (see Note 19). The fair 
value of debt excluding lease liabilities at December 31, 2019, was $71,163 million (2018: $64,708 million), mainly determined from the prices quoted 
for those securities. 
LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 
From January 1, 2019, leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset (see Note 8) and a corresponding liability at the date which the lease asset is 
available for the use by Shell (see Note 3). Lease liabilities are secured on the leased assets. Shell has lease contracts in Upstream and Integrated 
Gas for floating production storage and offloading units, subsea equipment, power generation for drilling and ancillary equipment, service vessels, 
LNG vessels and land and buildings; in Downstream, principally for tankers, storage capacity and retail sites; and in Corporate, principally for land 
and buildings. 
Lease expenses not included in the measurement of lease liability 
$ million
2019
Expense relating to short-term leases 834
Expense relating to variable lease payments not included in the lease liabilities 1,091
The total cash outflow in respect of leases representing repayment of principal and payment of interest in 2019 was $7 ,866 million, recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows from financing activities. 
The future lease payments under lease contracts and the present value of future lease payments at December 31, by payment date are as follows: 
2019
$ million
Contractual  
lease payments Interest
Lease 
liabilities [A]
Less than 1 year 7, 3 37 2,381 4,956
Between 1 and 5 years 17, 4 3 5 6,141 11,294
5 years and later 21,340 7, 0 5 3 14,287
Total 46,112 [B] 15,575 30,537
[A] S ee Note 3. 
[B]
 F
uture cash outflows in respect of leases may differ from lease liabilities recognised due to future decisions that may be taken by Shell in respect of the use of leased assets. These decisions may 
result in variable lease payments to be made. In addition, Shell may reconsider whether it will exercise extension options or termination options, where future reconsideration is not reflected in 
the lease liabilities. There is no exposure to these potential additional payments in excess of the recognised lease liabilities until these decisions have been taken by Shell.
2018
$ million
Finance leases [A]
Operating 
leases [A] 
Future 
minimum 
lease payments Interest
Present value 
of future minimum 
lease payments
Future minimum 
lease payments 
Less than 1 year 2,061 1,039 1,022 4,784
Between 1 and 5 years 7, 5 0 8 3,391 4,117 11,575
5 years and later 13,370 4,483 8,887 7, 8 6 0
Total 22,939 8,913 14,026 24,219
[A] S hell used the modified retrospective transition method for the adoption of IFRS 16 Leases  (see Note 3). Comparative information is not restated and continues to be presented as previously 
reported under IAS 17 Leases. 
Financial Statements

220
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
15 – TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
$ million
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Trade payables 29,497 – 30,351 –
Other payables 6,356 2,060 5,597 2,413
Amounts due to joint ventures and associates 3,312 40 2,851 33
Accruals and deferred income 10,043 242 10,089 289
Total 49,208 2,342 48,888 2,735
The fair value of financial liabilities included above approximates the carrying amount and was determined from predominantly unobservable inputs. 
Other payables include amounts due to joint arrangement partners and in respect of other project-related items. 
Information about offsetting, collateral and liquidity risk is presented in Note 19. 
16 – TAXATION
Taxation charge 
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Current tax:
Charge in respect of current period 7 ,597 10,415 7, 2 0 4
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (1) 60 (613)
Total 7, 5 9 6 10,475 6,591
Deferred tax:
Relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences, tax losses and credits 1,377 1,438 (4,102)
Relating to changes in tax rates and legislation (67) (157) 2,004 [A]
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 147 (41) 202
Total 1,457 1,240 (1,896)
Total taxation charge 9,053 11,715 4,695
[A] M ainly in respect of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 
Adjustments in respect of prior periods relate to events in the current period and reflect the effects of changes in rules, facts or other factors compared 
with those used in establishing the current tax position or deferred tax balance in prior periods. 
Reconciliation of applicable tax charge at statutory tax rates to taxation charge
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Income before taxation 25,485 35,621 18,130
Less: share of profit of joint ventures and associates (3,604) (4,106) (4,225)
Income before taxation and share of profit of joint ventures and associates 21,881 31,515 13,905
Applicable tax charge at standard statutory tax rates [A] 7, 21 4 11,641 4,709
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 146 19 (411)
Tax effects of: [B]
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,493 1,176 1,000
Derecognition/(recognition) of deferred tax assets 846 (381) (957)
Incentives for investment and development [A] (757) (557) (527)
Disposals (235) (524) (910)
Income not subject to tax at standard statutory rates 159 (286) (359)
Changes in tax rates and legislation (67) (157) 2,004
Exchange rate differences (34) 623 320
Other reconciling items 288 161 (174)
Taxation charge 9,053 11,715 4,695
[A] I ncentives for investment and development include conditional preferential tax rates to attract investment, uplift on carried forward losses and capital expenditure, investment tax allowances and 
credits for research and development. Up to and including 2018, preferential tax rates were reported within the applicable tax charge at standard statutory tax rates. Comparative numbers for 
2018 and 2017 were reclassified to conform with the current year presentation. 
[B]
 T
he tax effect categories have changed to provide better insights. Comparative numbers for 2018 and 2017 were reclassified to conform with the current year presentation.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

221
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
The weighted average of statutory tax rates was 33% in 2019 (2018: 37% as revised; 2017: 34% as revised). Compared with 2018, the decrease in the 
rate reflects a higher proportion of earnings in the Downstream and Integrated Gas segments, subject to relatively lower tax rates than earnings in the 
Upstream segment. In addition, a higher proportion of Integrated Gas income was earned in countries with relatively lower statutory tax rates. 
Taxes payable 
$ million
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Income taxes 3,478 3,990
Sales taxes, excise duties and similar levies 3,215 3,507
Total 6,693 7, 4 9 7
Included in other receivables at December 31, 2019 was income tax receivable of $1,328 million (2018: $1,042 million) (see Note 11).
2019 – Deferred tax
$ million
Deferred tax asset
Decommissioning 
and other 
provisions
Property, plant 
and equipment
Tax losses 
and credits  
carried forward
Retirement 
benefits Other Total
At January 1, 2019 (as previously published) 5,902 3,718 12,167 3,310 4,233 29,330
Impact of IFRS 16 (43) – – – 43 –
At January 1, 2019 (as revised) 5,859 3,718 12,167 3,310 4,276 29,330
(Charge)/credit to income 15 (521) (647) (76) 10 (1,219)
Currency translation differences 56 6 57 (8) (2) 109
Other (550) (189) 52 434 77 (176)
At December 31, 2019 5,380 3,014 11,629 3,660 4,361 28,044
Deferred tax liability
At January 1, 2019 (as previously published) ( 2 7, 7 7 1) (1,674) (2,625) (32,070)
Impact of IFRS 16 144 – (144) –
At January 1, 2019 (as revised) (27 ,627) (1,674) (2,769) (32,070)
(Charge)/credit to income (227) 46 (57) (238)
Currency translation differences (129) (6) (5) (140)
Other (57) 541 (78) 406
At December 31, 2019 (28,040) (1,093) (2,909) (32,042)
Net deferred tax liability at December 31, 2019 (3,998)
Deferred tax asset/liability as presented in the balance 
sheet at December 31, 2019
Deferred tax asset 10,524
Deferred tax liability (14,522)
Financial Statements

222
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
16 – TAXATION continued
2018 – Deferred tax
$ million
Deferred tax asset
Decommissioning 
and other provisions
Property, plant 
and equipment
Tax losses and 
credits carried 
forward
Retirement 
benefits Other Total
At January 1, 2018 6,182 3,379 13,684 3,868 4,144 31,257
(Charge)/credit to income 166 345 (553) 14 119 91
Currency translation differences (177) (32) (462) (93) (42) (806)
Other (269) 26 (502) (479) 12 (1,212)
At December 31, 2018 5,902 3,718 12,167 3,310 4,233 29,330
Deferred tax liability
At January 1, 2018 (26,904) (742) (2,827) (30,473)
(Charge)/credit to income (1,751) 180 240 (1,331)
Currency translation differences 409 24 36 469
Other 475 (1,136) (74) (735)
At December 31, 2018 ( 2 7, 7 7 1) (1,674) (2,625) (32,070)
Net deferred tax liability at December 31, 2018 (2,740)
Deferred tax asset/liability as presented in the balance 
sheet at December 31, 2018
Deferred tax asset 12,097
Deferred tax liability (14,837)
The presentation in the balance sheet takes into consideration the offsetting of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities within the same tax 
jurisdiction, where this is permitted. The overall deferred tax position in a particular tax jurisdiction determines if a deferred tax balance related to that 
jurisdiction is presented within deferred tax assets or deferred tax liabilities. 
Other movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities principally relate to acquisitions, sales of non-current assets and businesses, and amounts 
recognised in other comprehensive income. 
The deferred tax category ‘Other’ primarily includes deferred tax positions in respect of leases, financial assets and liabilities, inventories, intangible 
assets and investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. 
The amount of deferred tax assets dependent on future taxable profits not arising from the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, and which relate to 
tax jurisdictions where Shell has suffered a loss in the current or preceding year, was $8,773 million at December 31, 2019 (2018: $9,979 million). It is 
considered probable based on business forecasts that such profits will be available. 
Unrecognised taxable temporary differences associated with undistributed retained earnings of investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates amounted to $6,356 million at December 31, 2019 (2018: $3,951 million). These retained earnings are subject to withholding tax upon 
distribution. The increase of the amount compared with 2018 is related to a change in the withholding tax legislation, as a result of which a larger 
part of the undistributed retained earnings will be subject to withholding tax. 
Unrecognised deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and credits carried forward amounted to $33,068 million at December 31, 2019 
(2018: $30,010 million as revised) including amounts of $24,295 million (2018: $22,704 million as revised) that are subject to time limits for utilisation 
of five years or later, or are not time limited. 
Furthermore, there are unrecognised losses for Petroleum Resource Rent Tax (“PRRT”) in Australia, amounting to $36,905 million as at the end of the most 
recent PRRT fiscal year (June 30, 2019). In 2018, a portion of the PRRT losses amounting to $4,900 million was included in the amount of the 
unrecognised deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and credits carried forward. Based on business forecasts at existing commodity 
price levels, and the annual augmentation of the unused PRRT losses, this amount is expected to increase in the near future. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

223
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
17 – RETIREMENT BENEFITS 
Retirement benefits are provided through a number of funded and unfunded defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans, the most significant 
of which are in the Netherlands, UK and USA. Benefits comprise principally pensions; retirement healthcare and life insurance are also provided in 
certain countries.
Retirement benefit expense
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Defined benefit plans:
Current service cost, net of plan participants’ contributions 1,188 1,494 1,500
Interest expense on obligations 2,364 2,282 2,309
Interest income on plan assets (2,253) (2,087) (2,019)
Other 26 (221) (404)
Total 1,325 1,468 1,386
Defined contribution plans 428 410 429
Total retirement benefit expense 1,753 1,878 1,815
Retirement benefit expense is presented principally within production and manufacturing expenses and selling, distribution and administrative expenses 
in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Interest income on plan assets is calculated using the same rate as that applied to the related defined benefit 
obligations for each plan to determine interest expense. 
Remeasurements
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Actuarial gains/(losses) on obligations:
Due to changes in financial assumptions [A] (11,711) 8,186 (4,495)
Due to experience adjustments [B] 232 (268) 37
Due to changes in demographic assumptions [C] (75) (459) 933
Total (11,554) 7, 4 5 9 (3,525)
Return on plan assets in excess/(shortage) of interest income 8,460 (2,312) 4,942
Other movements (12) 66 50
Total remeasurements (3,106) 5,213 1,467
[A] P rimarily relates to changes in the discount rate assumptions. 
[B]
 E
xperience adjustments arise from differences between the actuarial assumptions made in respect of the year and actual outcomes. 
[C] P
rimarily relates to updates in mortality assumptions. 
Defined benefit plans 
$ million
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Obligations (103,545) (91,856)
Plan assets 94,826 85,803
Net liability (8,719) (6,053)
Retirement benefits in the Consolidated Balance Sheet:
Non-current assets 4,717 6,051
Non-current liabilities (13,017) (11,653)
Current liabilities (419) (451)
Total (8,719) (6,053)
Financial Statements

224
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
17 – RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued
Defined benefit plan obligations
$ million, except where indicated
2019 2018
At January 1 91,856 104,285
Current service cost 1,186 1,491
Interest expense 2,364 2,282
Actuarial losses/(gains) 11,554 (7 ,459)
Benefit payments (3,961) (4,435)
Other movements 194 (360)
Currency translation differences 352 (3,948)
At December 31 103,545 91,856
Comprising:
Funded pension plans 93,727 83,276
Weighted average duration 17 years 17 years
Unfunded pension plans 4,793 4,359
Weighted average duration 13 years 13 years
Other unfunded plans 5,025 4,221
Weighted average duration 14 years 12 years
Defined benefit plan assets
$ million, except where indicated
2019 2018
At January 1 85,803 93,243
Return on plan assets in excess/(shortage) of interest income 8,460 (2,312)
Interest income 2,253 2,087
Employer contributions 1,462 763
Plan participants’ contributions 42 47
Benefit payments (3,741) (4,123)
Other movements 160 (102)
Currency translation differences 387 (3,800)
At December 31 94,826 85,803
Comprising:
Quoted in active markets:
Equities 26% 24%
Debt securities 51% 53%
Real estate 1% 1%
Other 0% 1%
Other:
Equities 8% 8%
Debt securities 4% 3%
Real estate 6% 6%
Investment funds 3% 3%
Cash 1% 1%
Long-term investment strategies of plans are generally determined by the relevant pension plan trustees using a structured asset/liability modelling 
approach to define the asset mix that best meets the objectives of optimising returns within agreed risk levels while maintaining adequate funding levels. 
Employer contributions to defined benefit pension plans are based on actuarial valuations in accordance with local regulations and are estimated to be 
$0.7 billion in 2020. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

225
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Significant funding requirements: 
 ■ Additional contributions to the Netherlands defined benefit pension plan would be required if the 12-month rolling average local funding percentage 
falls below 105% for six months or more. At the most recent (2019) funding valuation the local funding percentage was above this level; 
 ■ There are no set minimum statutory funding requirements for the UK plans. Under an agreement with the trustee of the main UK defined benefit plan, 
Shell will provide additional contributions if the funding position falls below a certain level, although this is currently not anticipated; and 
 ■ Under the Pension Protection Act, US pension plans are subject to minimum required contribution levels based on the funding position. No 
contributions are required based on the most recent funding valuation.
The principal assumptions applied in determining the present value of defined benefit obligations and their bases were as follows: 
 ■ rates of increase in pensionable remuneration, pensions in payment and healthcare costs: historical experience and management’s long-term 
expectation; 
 ■ discount rates: prevailing long-term AA corporate bond yields, chosen to match the currency and duration of the relevant obligation; and 
 ■ mortality rates: published standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned adjusted for Shell experience where statistically significant. 
The weighted averages for those assumptions and related sensitivity information at December 31 are presented below. Sensitivity information 
indicates by how much the defined benefit obligations would increase or decrease if a given assumption were to increase or decrease with no 
change in other assumptions. 
$ million, except where indicated
Assumptions used
Effect of using alternative assumptions
Increase/(decrease) in defined benefit obligations
2019 2018
Range of  
assumptions 2019 2018
Rate of increase in pensionable remuneration 4.1% 4.1% -1% to +1% (1,975) to 2,266 (1,576) to 1,819
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 1.6% 1.8% -1% to +1% (9,541) to 11,757 (8,304) to 10,104
Rate of increase in healthcare costs 6.1% 6.3% -1% to +1% (546) to 675 (410) to 496
Discount rate for pension plans 2.1% 2.9% -1% to +1% 18,431 to (14,155) 15,606 to (12,078)
Discount rate for healthcare plans 3.2% 4.2% -1% to +1% 704 to (558) 536 to (436)
Expected age at death for persons aged 60:
Men 87 years 87 years -1 year to +1 year (1,717) to 1,782 (1,538) to 1,583
Women 89 years 89 years -1 year to +1 year (1,631) to 1,694 (1,436) to 1,476
Financial Statements

226
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
18 – DECOMMISSIONING AND OTHER PROVISIONS
$ million
Decommissioning 
and restoration Legal Environmental Redundancy Other Total
At January 1, 2019
Current (as previously published) 876 213 264 491 1,815 3,659
Impact of IFRS 16 [A] – – – (50) (268) (318)
Current (as revised) 876 213 264 441 1,547 3,341
Non-current (as previously published) 17, 0 5 7 1,247 1,074 468 1,687 21,533
Impact of IFRS 16 [A] – – – (188) (159) (347)
Non-current (as revised) 17, 0 5 7 1,247 1,074 280 1,528 21,186
17,9 3 3 1,460 1,338 721 3,075 24,527
Additions 625 585 229 290 535 2,264
Amounts charged against provisions (797) (216) (223) (304) (562) (2,102)
Accretion expense 644 28 16 3 25 716
Disposals (1,238)[B] – (8) – (14) (1,260)
Remeasurements and other movements 1,696 (45) (155) (192) (988)[C] 316
Currency translation differences 156 (1) – (3) (3) 149
1,086 351 (141) (206) (1,007) 83
At December 31, 2019
Current 755 626 263 295 872 2,811
Non-current 18,264 1,185 934 220 1,196 21,799
19,019 1,811 1,197 515 2,068 24,610
At January 1, 2018
Current 817 423 287 758 1,180 3,465
Non-current 19,767 1,095 1,218 560 2,326 24,966
20,584 1,518 1,505 1,318 3,506 28,431
Additions 418 196 191 535 1,070 2,410
Amounts charged against provisions (497) (200) (212) (504) (887) (2,300)
Accretion expense 755 17 17 15 48 852
Disposals (1,781) (14) (11) (3) (49) (1,858)
Remeasurements and other movements (1,065) (47) (130) (367) (122) (1,731)
Currency translation differences (481) (10) (22) (35) (64) (612)
(2,651) (58) (167) (359) (4) (3,239)
At December 31, 2018
Current 876 213 264 491 1,815 3,659
Non-current 17, 0 5 7 1,247 1,074 468 1,687 21,533
17,9 3 3 1,460 1,338 959 3,502 25,192
[A] F ollowing the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases  (see Note 3) provisions related to onerous operating lease contracts at December 31, 2018 were derecognised and related right-of-use assets were 
adjusted accordingly. Certain operating lease contracts, mainly related to office buildings became onerous following restructuring and these onerous operating lease contracts were included in 
the provision for redundancy.
[B]
 M
ainly related to the disposal of interests in Denmark and Canada.
[C]
 M
ainly related to reclassifications to Trade and other payables.
The amount and timing of settlement in respect of these provisions are uncertain and dependent on various factors that are not always within 
management’s control. Reviews of estimated future decommissioning and restoration costs and the discount rate applied are carried out annually. The 
discount rate applied at December 31, 2019 was 3% (December 31, 2018: 4%). This decrease resulted from the decrease in capital markets rates in 2019. 
In 2019, there was an increase of $2,241 million (2018: $nil) in the decommissioning and restoration provision as a result of the change in the discount 
rate, partly offset by a decrease in the provision resulting from changes in cost estimates of $545 million (2018: $982 million), reported within re-
measurements and other movements.
Of the decommissioning and restoration provision at December 31, 2019, an estimated $2,869 million is expected to be utilised within one to five years, 
$2,432 million within six to 10 years, and the remainder in later periods.
Other provisions include amounts recognised in respect of employee benefits. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

227
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
19 – FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial instruments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet include investments in securities (see Note 10), cash and cash equivalents (see Note 13), 
debt (see Note 14) and derivative contracts. 
Risks 
In the normal course of business, financial instruments of various kinds are used for the purposes of managing exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange 
and commodity price movements. 
Treasury standards are applicable to all subsidiaries and each subsidiary is required to adopt a treasury policy consistent with these standards. These 
policies cover: financing structure; interest rate and foreign exchange risk management; insurance; counterparty risk management; and use of derivative 
contracts. Wherever possible, treasury operations are carried out through specialist regional organisations without removing from each subsidiary the 
responsibility to formulate and implement appropriate treasury policies. 
Apart from forward foreign exchange contracts to meet known commitments, the use of derivative contracts by most subsidiaries is not permitted by 
their treasury policy. 
Other than in exceptional cases, the use of external derivative contracts is confined to specialist trading and central treasury organisations that have 
appropriate skills, experience, supervision, control and reporting systems. 
Shell’s operations expose it to market, credit and liquidity risk, as described below. 
Market risk 
Market risk is the possibility that changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates or the prices of crude oil, natural gas, LNG, refined products, chemical 
feedstocks, power and carbon-emission rights will adversely affect the value of assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows. 
Interest rate risk 
Most debt is raised from central borrowing programmes. Shell’s policy continues to be to have debt principally denominated in dollars and to maintain 
a largely floating interest rate exposure profile; however, Shell has issued a significant amount of fixed rate debt in recent years, taking advantage of 
historically low interest rates available in debt markets. As a result, a substantial portion of the debt portfolio at December 31, 2019, is at fixed rates 
and this reduces Shell’s exposure to the dollar LIBOR interest rate (see Note 2B). 
The financing of most subsidiaries is structured on a floating-rate basis, and any further interest rate risk management is only applied under exceptional 
circumstances. 
On the basis of the floating-rate net debt position at December 31, 2019 (both issued and hedged), and assuming other factors (principally foreign 
exchange rates and commodity prices) remained constant and that no further interest rate management action was taken, an increase in interest rates 
of 1% would have decreased 2019 income before taxation by $98 million (2018: $37 million, based on the floating rate position at December 31, 2018). 
The carrying amounts and maturities of debt and borrowing facilities are presented in Note 14. Interest expense is presented in Note 6. 
Foreign exchange risk 
Many of the markets in which Shell operates are priced, directly or indirectly, in dollars. As a result, the functional currency of most Integrated Gas and 
Upstream entities and those with significant cross-border business is the dollar. For Downstream entities, the functional currency is typically the local 
currency. Consequently, Shell is exposed to varying levels of foreign exchange risk when an entity enters into transactions that are not denominated in 
its functional currency, when foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the balance sheet date and as a result of holding net 
investments in operations that are not dollar-functional. Each entity is required to adopt treasury policies that are designed to measure and manage 
its foreign exchange exposures by reference to its functional currency. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses arise in the normal course of business from the recognition of receivables and payables and other monetary items 
in currencies other than an entity’s functional currency. Foreign exchange risk may also arise in connection with capital expenditure. For major projects, 
an assessment is made at the final investment decision stage whether to hedge any resulting exposure. 
Assuming other factors (principally interest rates and commodity prices) remained constant and that no further foreign exchange risk management action 
were taken, a 10% appreciation against the dollar at December 31 of the main currencies to which Shell is exposed would have the following effects: 
$ million
Increase/(decrease) 
in income before taxation Increase in net assets
2019 2018 2019 2018
10% appreciation against the dollar of:
Canadian dollar (97) (40) 1,380 1,245
Euro 36 65 1,227 1,190
Australian dollar (55) (109) 835 835
Sterling (58) (46) 581 779
Financial Statements

228
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
19 – FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
The above sensitivity information was calculated by reference to carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at December 31 only. The effect on income 
before taxation arises in connection with monetary balances denominated in currencies other than an entity’s functional currency; the effect on net 
assets arises principally from the translation of assets and liabilities of entities that are not dollar-functional. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses included in income are presented in Note 5. 
Commodity price risk 
Certain subsidiaries have a mandate to trade crude oil, natural gas, LNG, refined products, chemical feedstocks, power and carbon-emission rights, and 
to use commodity derivative contracts (forwards, futures, swaps and options) as a means of managing price and timing risks arising from this trading 
activity. In effecting these transactions, the entities concerned operate within procedures and policies designed to ensure that risks, including those 
relating to the default of counterparties, are managed within authorised limits. 
Value-at-risk (“VAR”) techniques based on variance/covariance or Monte Carlo simulation models are used to make a statistical assessment of the market 
risk arising from possible future changes in market values over a 1-day holding period and within a 95% confidence level. The calculation of potential 
changes in fair value takes into account positions, the history of price movements and the correlation of these price movements. Models are regularly 
reviewed against actual fair value movements to ensure integrity is maintained. The VAR year-end positions in respect of commodities traded in active 
markets, which are presented in the table below, are calculated on a diversified basis in order to reflect the effect of offsetting risk within combined portfolios.
Value-at-risk (pre-tax) 
$ million
December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Global oil 22 28
North America gas and power 12 11
Europe gas and power 5 3
Carbon-emission rights 4 2
Credit risk 
Policies are in place to ensure that sales of products are made to customers with appropriate creditworthiness. These policies include detailed credit 
analysis and monitoring of trading partners against counterparty credit limits. Credit information is regularly shared between business and finance 
functions, with dedicated teams in place to quickly identify and respond to cases of credit deterioration. Mitigation measures are defined and 
implemented for high-risk business partners and customers, and include shortened payment terms, collateral or other security posting and vigorous 
collections. In addition, policies limit the amount of credit exposure to any individual financial institution. There are no material concentrations of 
credit risk, with individual customers or geographically, and there has been no significant level of counterparty default in recent years. 
Surplus cash is invested in a range of short-dated, secure and liquid instruments including short-term bank deposits, money market funds, reverse repos 
and similar instruments. The portfolio of these investments is diversified to avoid concentrating risk in any one instrument, country or counterparty. 
Management monitors the investments regularly and adjusts the investment portfolio in light of new market information where necessary to ensure 
credit risk is effectively diversified. 
In commodity trading, counterparty credit risk is managed within a framework of credit limits with utilisation being regularly reviewed. Credit risk 
exposure is monitored and the acceptable level is determined by a credit committee. Credit checks are performed by a department independent of 
traders, and are undertaken before contractual commitment. Where appropriate, netting arrangements, credit insurance, prepayments and collateral 
are used to manage specific risks. 
Shell routinely enters into offsetting, master netting and similar arrangements with trading and other counterparties to manage credit risk. Where there is 
a legally enforceable right of offset under such arrangements and Shell has the intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously, the net asset or liability is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, otherwise assets and liabilities are presented gross. These 
amounts, as presented net and gross within trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and derivative financial instruments in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, were as follows: 
2019
$ million
Amounts offset Amounts not offset
Net 
amounts
Gross amounts 
before offset
Amounts 
offset
Net amounts 
as presented
Cash collateral 
received/pledged
Other offsetting 
instruments
Assets:
Within trade receivables 13,821 8,975 4,846 54 101 4,691
Within derivative financial instruments 12,995 7, 31 0 5,685 531 2,262 2,892
Liabilities:
Within trade payables 13,335 9,029 4,306 11 101 4,194
Within derivative financial instruments 12,355 7, 2 5 3 5,102 706 2,262 2,134
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

229
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
2018
$ million
Amounts offset Amounts not offset
Net amounts
Gross amounts 
before offset
Amounts 
offset
Net amounts 
as presented
Cash collateral 
received/pledged
Other offsetting 
instruments
Assets:
Within trade receivables 12,697 8,340 4,358 62 221 4,075
Within derivative financial instruments 12,323 6,353 5,970 437 2,653 2,880
Liabilities:
Within trade payables 12,931 8,264 4,667 97 221 4,349
Within derivative financial instruments 12,227 5,044 7,1 8 3 1,115 2,653 3,415
Amounts not offset principally relate to contracts where the intention to settle on a net basis was not clearly established at December 31. 
The carrying amount of financial assets pledged as collateral for liabilities or contingent liabilities at December 31, 2019, presented within trade and 
other receivables, was $1,948 million (2018: $3,094 million). The carrying amount of collateral held at December 31, 2019, presented within trade and 
other payables, was $718 million (2018: $535 million). Collateral mainly relates to initial margins held with commodity exchanges and over-the-counter 
counterparty variation margins. Some derivative contracts are fully cash collateralised, thereby eliminating both counterparty risk and the Group’s own 
non-performance risk
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that suitable sources of funding for Shell’s business activities may not be available. Management believes that it has access to 
sufficient debt funding sources (capital markets), and to undrawn committed borrowing facilities to meet foreseeable requirements. Information about 
borrowing facilities is presented in Note 14. 
DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS AND HEDGES
Derivative contracts are used principally as hedging instruments, however, because hedge accounting is not always applied, movements in the carrying 
amounts of derivative contracts that are recognised in income are not always matched in the same period by the recognition of the income effects of the 
related hedged items. 
Carrying amounts, maturities and hedges 
The carrying amounts of derivative contracts at December 31, designated and not designated as hedging instruments for hedge accounting purposes, 
were as follows:
2019
$ million
Assets Liabilities
NetDesignated
Not 
designated Total Designated
Not 
designated Total
Interest rate swaps 227 8 235 34 24 58 177
Forward foreign exchange contracts 7 236 243 2 309 311 (68)
Currency swaps and options 90 15 105 932 56 988 (883)
Commodity derivatives – 6,914 6,914 – 5,281 5,281 1,633
Other contracts – 341 341 – – – 341
Total 324 7, 5 1 4 7, 8 3 8 968 5,670 6,638 1,200
2018
$ million
Assets Liabilities
NetDesignated
Not 
designated Total Designated
Not 
designated Total
Interest rate swaps 86 3 89 174 14 188 (99)
Forward foreign exchange contracts – 331 331 33 264 297 34
Currency swaps and options 186 26 212 1,202 203 1,405 (1,193)
Commodity derivatives – 6,864 6,864 – 6,637 6,637 227
Other contracts – 271 271 – 56 56 215
Total 272 7, 4 95 7, 767 1,409 7,174 8,583 (816)
Financial Statements

230
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
19 – FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Net losses before tax on derivative contracts, excluding realised commodity contracts and those accounted for as hedges, were $2,004 million in 2019 
(2018: $1,818 million losses; 2017: $1,321 million losses).
Certain contracts, mainly to hedge price risk relating to forecast commodity transactions which mature in 2020-2021, were designated in cash flow 
hedging relationships. The net carrying amount of commodity derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedging instruments at December 31, 2019, 
was a liability of $101 million (2018: $120 million asset) (see Note 22), and was presented after the offset of related margin balances maintained with 
exchanges.
Certain interest rate and currency swaps were designated in fair value hedges, principally in respect of debt for which the net carrying amount of the 
related derivative contracts, net of accrued interest, at December 31, 2019, was a liability of $518 million (2018: $1,242 million).
In the course of trading operations, certain contracts are entered into for delivery of commodities that are accounted for as derivatives. The resulting 
price exposures are managed by entering into related derivative contracts. These contracts are managed on a fair value basis and the maximum 
exposure to liquidity risk is the undiscounted fair value of derivative liabilities. 
For a minority of commodity derivative contracts, carrying amounts cannot be derived from quoted market prices or other observable inputs, in which 
case fair value is estimated using valuation techniques such as Black-Scholes, option spread models and extrapolation using quoted spreads with 
assumptions developed internally based on observable market activity. 
Other contracts include certain contracts that are held to sell or purchase commodities and others containing embedded derivatives, which are required 
to be recognised at fair value because of pricing or delivery conditions, even though they were entered into to meet operational requirements. These 
contracts are expected to mature in 2020-2025, with certain contracts having early termination rights (for either party). Valuations are derived from 
quoted market prices.
The contractual maturities of derivative liabilities at December 31 compare with their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows:
2019
$ million
Contractual maturities
Difference 
from carrying 
amount [A]
Carrying 
amount
Less than 
1 year
Between 
1 and 2 
years
Between 
2 and 3 
years
Between 
3 and 4 
years
Between 
4 and 5 
years
5 years 
and later Total
Interest rate swap 35 8 4 4 5 4 60 (2) 58
Forward foreign exchange contracts 214 40 8 – 118 – 380 (69) 311
Currency swaps and options 255 475 444 201 204 1,777 3,356 (2,368) 988
Commodity derivatives 3,472 756 349 189 123 511 5,400 (119) 5,281
Total 3,976 1,279 805 394 450 2,292 9,196 (2,558) 6,638
[A] M ainly related to the effect of discounting. 
2018
$ million
Contractual maturities
Difference 
from carrying 
amount [A]
Carrying 
amount
Less than 
1 year
Between 
1 and 2 
years
Between 
2 and 3 
years
Between 
3 and 4 
years
Between 
4 and 5 
years
5 years 
and later Total
Interest rate swap 101 68 20 1 1 1 192 (4) 188
Forward foreign exchange contracts 177 (24) 33 (1) (5) (15) 165 132 297
Currency swaps and options 605 265 474 405 198 1,715 3,662 (2,257) 1,405
Commodity derivatives 4,733 978 422 213 138 382 6,866 (229) 6,637
Other contracts 58 – – – – – 58 (2) 56
Total 5,674 1,287 949 618 332 2,083 10,943 (2,360) 8,583
[A] M ainly related to the effect of discounting. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

231
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Fair value measurements 
The net carrying amounts of derivative contracts held at December 31, categorised according to the predominant source and nature of inputs used 
in determining the fair value of each contract, were as follows: 
2019
$ million
Prices in active 
markets for 
identical 
assets/liabilities
Other 
observable 
inputs
Unobservable 
inputs Total
Interest rate swaps – 177 – 177
Forward foreign exchange contracts – (68) – (68)
Currency swaps and options – (883) – (883)
Commodity derivatives (6) 895 74 4 1,633
Other contracts 27 304 10 341
Total 21 425 754 1,200
2018
$ million
Prices in active 
markets for 
identical 
assets/liabilities
Other 
observable 
inputs
Unobservable 
inputs Total
Interest rate swaps – (99) – (99)
Forward foreign exchange contracts – 34 – 34
Currency swaps and options – (1,193) – (1,193)
Commodity derivatives (52) 431 (152) 227
Other contracts – 90 125 215
Total (52) (737) (27) (816)
Net carrying amounts of derivative contracts measured using predominantly unobservable inputs
$ million
2019 2018
At January 1 (27) 297
Net gains/(losses) recognised in revenue 1,085 (258)
Purchases 453 461
Sales (633) (540)
Recategorisations (net) (125) 18
Currency translation differences 1 (5)
At December 31 754 (27)
Included in net gains recognised in revenue in 2019 were unrealised net gains totalling $612 million relating to assets and liabilities held at 
December 31, 2019 (2018: $36 million losses).
Financial Statements

232
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
20 – SHARE CAPITAL 
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of €0.07 each [A]
Number of shares Nominal value ($ million)
A B A B Total
At January 1, 2019 4,471,889,296 3,745,486,731 376 309 685
Repurchases of shares (320,101,779) (16,079,624) (27) (1) (28)
At December 31, 2019 4,151,787 ,517 3,729,407,107 349 308 657
At January 1, 2018 4,597 ,136,050 3,745,486,731 387 309 696
Repurchases of shares (125,246,754) – (11) – (11)
At December 31, 2018 4,471,889,296 3,745,486,731 376 309 685
[A] S hare capital at December 31, 2019, and 2018, also included 50,000 issued and fully paid sterling deferred shares of £1 each. 
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) on May 21, 2019, the Board was authorised to allot ordinary shares in the Company, and to 
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into ordinary shares in the Company, up to an aggregate nominal amount of €190.3 million 
(representing 2,720 million ordinary shares of €0.07 each), and to list such shares or rights on any stock exchange. This authority expires at the 
earlier of the close of business on August 21, 2020, and the end of the AGM to be held in 2020, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied 
by the Company in a general meeting. 
At the May 21, 2019 AGM, shareholders granted the Company the authority to repurchase up to 815 million ordinary shares (excluding any treasury 
shares), renewing the authority granted by the shareholders at previous AGMs. The authority will expire at the earlier of the close of business on August 
21, 2020, and the end of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2020. Ordinary shares purchased by the Company pursuant to this authority will either 
be cancelled or held in treasury. Treasury shares are shares in the Company which are owned by the Company itself. The minimum price, exclusive of 
expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary share is €0.07 . The maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary share is the 
higher of: (i) an amount equal to 5% above the average market value for an ordinary share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of 
the purchase; and (ii) the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the 
purchase is carried out. 
21 – SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS AND SHARES HELD IN TRUST
Share-based compensation expense
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Equity-settled 537 531 422
Cash-settled [A] – – 380
Total 537 531 802
[A] A s from 2018 onwards, components of share-based payments (related to tax) that were previously classified as cash-settled are classified as equity-settled. On an incidental basis awards may be 
cash settled, where an equity settlement is not possible under local regulations. 
The principal share-based employee compensation plans are the PSP and LTIP. Awards of shares and American Depository Shares (“ADSs”) of the 
Company under the PSP and LTIP are granted upon certain conditions to eligible employees. The actual amount of shares that may vest ranges from 
0% to 200% of the awards, depending on the outcomes of prescribed performance conditions over a three-year period beginning on January 1 of 
the award year. Shares and ADSs vest for nil consideration. 
Share awards under the PSP and LTIP
Number of A 
shares 
(million)
Number of B 
shares 
(million)
Number of A 
ADSs 
(million)
Weighted Average 
remaining contractual 
life (years)
At January 1, 2019 30 12 8 1.0
Granted 11 3 3
Vested (11) (5) (3)
Forfeited (1) – –
At December 31, 2019 29 10 8 1.0
At January 1, 2018 33 12 9 0.9
Granted 10 4 3
Vested (12) (4) (4)
Forfeited (1) – –
At December 31, 2018 30 12 8 1.0
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

233
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Other plans offer eligible employees opportunities to acquire shares and ADSs of the Company or receive cash benefits measured by reference to 
the Company’s share price. 
Shell employee share ownership trusts and trust-like entities purchase the Company’s shares in the open market to meet delivery commitments under 
employee share plans. At December 31, 2019, they held 17 .4 million A shares (2018: 19.6 million), 6.5 million B shares (2018: 7 .1 million) and 5.3 million 
A ADSs (2018: 5.9 million). 
22 – OTHER RESERVES
Other reserves attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders
$ million
Merger 
reserve
Share 
premium 
reserve
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Share plan 
reserve
Accumulated 
other 
comprehensive 
income Total
At January 1, 2019 37, 2 9 8 154 95 1,098 (22,030) 16,615
Other comprehensive loss attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc 
shareholders – – – – (2,069) (2,069)
Transfer from other comprehensive income – – – – (74) (74)
Repurchases of shares – – 28 – – 28
Share-based compensation – – – (49) – (49)
At December 31, 2019 37, 2 9 8 154 123 1,049 (24,173) 14,451
At January 1, 2018 (as previously published) 37, 2 9 8 154 84 1,440 (22,044) 16,932
Impact of IFRS 9 – – – – (138) (138)
At January 1, 2018 (as revised) 37, 2 9 8 154 84 1,440 (22,182) 16,794
Other comprehensive income attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc 
shareholders – – – – 1,123 1,123
Transfer from other comprehensive income – – – – (971) (971)
Repurchases of shares – – 11 – – 11
Share-based compensation – – – (342) – (342)
At December 31, 2018 37, 2 9 8 154 95 1,098 (22,030) 16,615
At January 1, 2017 37, 311 154 84 1,644 ( 2 7, 8 95) 11,298
Other comprehensive loss attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc 
shareholders – – – – 5,851 5,851
Scrip dividends (13) – – – – (13)
Share-based compensation – – – (204) – (204)
At December 31, 2017 37, 2 9 8 154 84 1,440 (22,044) 16,932
The merger reserve and share premium reserve were established as a consequence of the Company becoming the single parent company of Royal 
Dutch Petroleum Company and The “Shell” Transport and Trading Company, plc, now The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited, in 2005. 
The capital redemption reserve was established in connection with repurchases of shares of the Company. The share plan reserve is in respect of 
equity-settled share-based compensation plans (see Note 21). The movement represents the net of the charge for the year and the release as a 
result of vested awards and is after deduction of tax of $45 million in 2019 (2018: $71 million; 2017: $11 million). 
Financial Statements

234
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
22 – OTHER RESERVES continued
Accumulated other comprehensive income comprises the following:
Accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 
$ million
Currency 
translation 
differences
Unrealised 
gains/
(losses) on
securities
Debt 
instruments 
remeasurements
Cash flow 
and net 
investment 
hedging
gains/(losses)
Deferred 
cost of 
hedging
Retirement 
benefits 
remeasurements
Equity 
instrument 
remeasurements Total
At January 1, 2019 (11,747) (21) 117 (353) (10,932) 906 (22,030)
Recognised in other comprehensive income 302 24 (579) 9 (3,106) (17) (3,367)
Reclassified to income 38 5 268 86 – – 397
Reclassified to the balance sheet – – 11 – – – 11
Reclassified to retained earnings – – – – 11 (85) (74)
Tax on amounts recognised/reclassified 4 – 33 (29) 1,004 (13) 999
Total, net of tax 344 29 (267) 66 (2,091) (115) (2,034)
Share of joint ventures and associates (2) – (74) – – 2 (74)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period 342 29 (341) 66 (2,091) (113) (2,108)
Less: non-controlling interest (35) – – – – – (35)
Attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 307 29 (341) 66 (2,091) (113) (2,143)
At December 31, 2019 (11,440) 8 (224) (287) (13,023) 793 (24,173)
At January 1, 2018 (as previously published) (8,735) 1,969 – (633) – (14,645) – (22,044)
Impact of IFRS 9 – (1,969) (6) 6 (144) – 1,975 (138)
At January 1, 2018 (as revised) (8,735) (6) (627) (144) (14,645) 1,975 (22,182)
Recognised in other comprehensive income (3,794) (15) 50 (362) 5,213 (147) 945
Reclassified to income 651 – 722 95 – – 1,468
Reclassified to the balance sheet – – (30) – – – (30)
Reclassified to retained earnings – – – – 137 (1,108) (971)
Tax on amounts recognised/reclassified (29) – (12) 58 (1,625) (6) (1,614)
Total, net of tax (3,172) (15) 730 (209) 3,725 (1,261) (202)
Share of joint ventures and associates (25) – 14 – 1 193 183
Other comprehensive loss for the period (3,197) (15) 74 4 (209) 3,726 (1,068) (19)
Less: non-controlling interest 185 – – – (13) (1) 171
Attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders (3,012) (15) 74 4 (209) 3,713 (1,069) 152
At December 31, 2018 (11,747) (21) 117 (353) (10,932) 906 (22,030)
At January 1, 2017 (13,831) 1,321 – (144) – (15,241) – ( 2 7, 8 95)
Recognised in other comprehensive income 4,513 796 – (467) – 1,467 – 6,309
Reclassified to income 610 (211) – (87) – – – 312
Reclassified to the balance sheet – – – (18) – – – (18)
Tax on amounts recognised/reclassified 33 8 – 20 – (863) – (802)
Total, net of tax 5,156 593 – (552) – 604 – 5,801
Share of joint ventures and associates 53 55 – 63 – (1) – 170
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period 5,209 648 – (489) – 603 – 5,971
Less: non-controlling interest (113) – – – – (7) – (120)
Attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 5,096 648 – (489) – 596 – 5,851
At December 31, 2017 (8,735) 1,969 – (633) – (14,645) – (22,044)
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

235
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
23 – DIVIDENDS
Interim dividends
$ million
2019 2018 2017
A shares:
Cash: $1.88 per share (2018: $1.88; 2017: $1.88) 8,147 8,605 4,919
Scrip: none (2018: none; 2017: $1.88 per share) – – 3,558
Total – A shares 8,147 8,605 8,477
B shares:
Cash: $1.88 per share (2018: $1.88; 2017: $1.88) 7, 0 5 1 7, 07 0 5,958
Scrip: none (2018: none; 2017: $1.88 per share) – – 1,193
Total – B shares 7, 0 5 1 7, 07 0 7,1 5 1
Total 15,198 15,675 15,628
In addition, on January 30, 2020, the Directors announced a further interim dividend in respect of 2019 of $0.47 per A share and $0.47 per B share. 
The total dividend is estimated to be $3,691 million and is payable on March 23, 2020, to shareholders on the register at February 14, 2020. The Scrip 
Dividend Programme has been cancelled with effect from the fourth quarter 2017 interim dividend. 
Dividends on A shares are by default paid in euros, although holders may elect to receive dividends in US dollars or in sterling. Dividends on B shares 
are by default paid in sterling, although holders may elect to receive dividends in US dollars or in euros. Dividends on ADSs are paid in dollars. 
24 – EARNINGS PER SHARE
2019 2018 2017
Income attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders ($ million) 15,842 23,352 12,977
Weighted average number of A and B shares used as the basis for determining:
Basic earnings per share (million) 8,058.3 8,282.8 8,223.4
Diluted earnings per share (million) 8,112.5 8,348.7 8,299.0
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the income attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders for the year by the weighted 
average number of A and B shares outstanding during the year. The weighted average number of shares outstanding excludes shares held in trust. 
Diluted earnings per share are based on the same income figures. The weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year is increased 
by dilutive shares related to share-based compensation plans. 
Earnings per share are identical for A and B shares. 
25 – LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND OTHER CONTINGENCIES 
General
In the ordinary course of business, Shell subsidiaries are subject to a 
number of contingencies arising from litigation and claims brought by 
governmental, including tax authorities, and private parties. The 
operations and earnings of Shell subsidiaries continue, from time to time, 
to be affected to varying degrees by political, legislative, fiscal and 
regulatory developments, including those relating to the protection of the 
environment and indigenous groups in the countries in which they operate. 
The industries in which Shell subsidiaries are engaged are also subject to 
physical risks of various types. 
The amounts claimed in relation to such events and, if such claims against 
Shell were successful, the costs of implementing the remedies sought in the 
various cases could be substantial. Based on information available to date 
and taking into account that in some cases it is not practicable to estimate 
the possible magnitude or timing of any resultant payments, management 
believes that the foregoing are not expected to have a material adverse 
impact on Shell’s Consolidated Financial Statements. However, there 
remains a high degree of uncertainty around these contingencies, as well 
as their potential effect on future operations, earnings, cash flows and 
Shell’s financial condition. 
In certain divestment transactions, liabilities related to dismantling and 
restoration are de-recognised upon transfer of these obligations to the 
buyer. For certain of these obligations Shell has issued guarantees to third 
parties and continues to be liable in case that the primary obligator is not 
able to meet its obligation. These potential obligations arising from 
issuance of these guarantees are assessed to be remote. 
Financial Statements

236
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Pesticide litigation 
Shell Oil Company (“SOC”), along with another agricultural chemical 
pesticide manufacturer and several distributors, has been sued by public 
and quasi-public water purveyors alleging responsibility for groundwater 
contamination caused by applications of chemical pesticides. There are 
approximately 36 such cases currently pending. These suits assert various 
theories of strict liability and negligence, and seek to recover actual 
damages, including drinking well treatment and remediation costs. Most 
assert claims for punitive damages. While the Company continues to 
vigorously defend these lawsuits, a new environmental regulatory 
standard became effective in the State of California, where a majority of 
the suits are pending. The new standard requires public water systems 
state wide to perform quarterly or monthly sampling of their drinking 
water sources for a chemical contained in certain pesticides, beginning in 
January 2018. Water systems deemed out of compliance with the new five 
parts per trillion regulatory standard must take corrective action to resolve 
the exceedance or take the potable water source out of service. In 
response to this new regulatory standard, the Company is monitoring the 
sampling results to determine the number of wells potentially impacted. 
Based on the claims asserted and SOC’s track record, with regard to 
amounts paid to resolve varying claims, management does not expect the 
outcome of these lawsuits pending at December 31, 2019, to have a 
material adverse impact on Shell. However, there remains a high degree 
of uncertainty regarding the potential outcome of some of these pending 
lawsuits, as well as their potential effect on future operations, earnings, 
cash flows and Shell’s financial condition. 
Climate change litigation
In the USA, 12 lawsuits have been filed by several municipalities and 
one state against oil and gas companies, including Royal Dutch Shell plc. 
The plaintiffs seek damages for claimed harm to their public and private 
infrastructure from rising sea levels allegedly due to climate change 
caused by the defendants’ fossil fuel products. A similar suit has been filed 
by a crab fishing industry group claiming harm to their fisheries as a result 
of alleged ocean-related impacts of climate change. In the Netherlands a 
case has been filed against Shell by a group of environmental non-
governmental organisations (“eNGOs”) and individual claimants seeking 
a court order that Shell reduce by (net) 100% by 2050 the emissions 
associated with its business activities and products. Management believes 
the outcome of these matters should be resolved in a manner favourable 
to Shell, however, there remains a high degree of uncertainty regarding 
the ultimate outcome of these lawsuits, as well as their potential effect on 
future operations, earnings, cash flows and Shell’s financial condition. 
Brazil tax
Pursuant to Law 7 .183/2015 issued by the State of Rio de Janeiro (RJ State) 
and effective March 2016, a value-added levy has been imposed on oil 
extraction in the RJ State. The Company understands that the obligations 
arising from this law are not legally sustainable and Shell obtained 
favourable injunctions suspending the enforcement of the law in two 
separate lawsuits, one filed to cover year 2016 and the other covering 
year 2017 onwards. The injunctions remain in effect and Shell received 
favourable decisions on the subject matter from the RJ State Court. 
The RJ State has appealed against both decisions and one is pending 
confirmation by the State Court while the other is pending final 
decisions by the Brazilian Superior and Supreme Courts. In addition, 
and as this is an industry-wide issue, the Brazilian Association of Oil 
and Gas Exploration and Production Companies, of which Shell is a 
member, filed a suit in February 2016 before the Brazilian Supreme 
Court, challenging the constitutionality of the law. This matter is 
currently pending with the Supreme Court. Should Shell be required 
to pay such a levy, it could result in a potential total liability of 
approximately $5,275 million as of end 2019. 
Louisiana coast litigation 
The State of Louisiana and multiple local governments have initiated 43 
lawsuits against 200+ Oil and Gas companies claiming historical oil and 
gas operations caused or contributed to wide-spread contamination, land 
loss and the erosion of the Louisiana coastline. Shell entities are named in 
14 of the suits. The amounts claimed are unspecified. The cases are of first 
impression, arise out of an untested 1980 Louisiana statute and represent 
a novel attempt to render illegal operations that federal and state 
agencies permitted and authorized at the time. Management believes 
the outcome of these matters should be resolved in a manner 
favourable to Shell; there remains a high degree of uncertainty, however, 
concerning the scope of the claims and the ultimate outcome, as well 
as their potential effect on future operations, earnings, cash flows 
and Shell’s financial condition.
Nigerian litigation 
Shell subsidiaries and associates operating in Nigeria are parties to 
various environmental and contractual disputes brought in the courts of 
Nigeria, England and the Netherlands. These disputes are at different 
stages in litigation, including at the appellate stage, where judgements 
have been rendered against Shell entities. If taken at face value, the 
aggregate amount of these judgements could be seen as material. 
Management, however, believes that the outcomes of these matters will 
ultimately be resolved in a manner favourable to Shell. However, there 
remains a high degree of uncertainty regarding these cases, as well as 
their potential effect on future operations, earnings, cash flows and 
Shell’s financial condition. 
The authorities in various countries are investigating Shell Nigeria 
Exploration and Production Company Ltd.’s (“SNEPCO’s”) investment 
in Nigerian oil block OPL 245 and the 2011 settlement of litigation 
pertaining to that block with regard to potential anti-bribery, anti-
corruption and anti-money laundering laws. 
On January 27 , 2017 , the Nigeria Federal High Court issued an Interim 
Order of Attachment for Oil Prospecting Licence 245 (“OPL 245”), 
pending the conclusion of the investigation. SNEPCO applied for and was 
granted a discharge of this order on constitutional and procedural 
grounds. Also in Nigeria, in March 2017 criminal charges alleging official 
corruption and conspiracy to commit official corruption were filed against 
SNEPCO, one current Shell employee and third parties including ENI SpA 
and one of its subsidiaries. Those proceedings are ongoing. In January 
2020, criminal charges alleging disobeying direction of law were filed in 
Nigeria against Shell Nigeria Ultra Deep Ltd., SNEPCO, and third parties 
including Nigeria Agip Exploration Limited. Those proceedings are 
ongoing. In March 2017 , parties alleging to be shareholders of Malabu 
Oil and Gas Company Ltd. (Malabu) filed two actions to challenge the 
2011 settlement and the award of OPL 245 to SNEPCO and an ENI SpA 
subsidiary by the Federal Government of Nigeria. Those proceedings are 
also ongoing. On May 8, 2018, Human Environmental Development 
Agenda (“HEDA”) sought permission from the Federal High Court of 
Nigeria to apply for an order to direct the Attorney General of the 
Federation to revoke OPL 245 on grounds that the entire Malabu 
transaction in relation to the OPL is unconstitutional, illegal and void as it 
was obtained through fraudulent and corrupt practice. On October 4, 
2018, SNEPCO was joined as a defendant in the HEDA action. Those 
proceedings are ongoing. On December 12, 2018, the Federal Republic 
of Nigeria issued a claim form in the UK against Shell and six subsidiaries, 
ENI SpA and two of its subsidiaries, Malabu as well as two other entities 
for the amount of $1,092 million plus damages for having participated in 
a fraudulent and corrupt scheme leading to the acquisition by Shell and 
ENI corporate defendants in 2011 of OPL 245. The Shell entities were 
served in April and May 2019. The Shell entities and other defendants 
have challenged the jurisdiction of the English courts to try the claims and 
a hearing is scheduled for April 2020. On February 14, 2017 , Royal Dutch 
Shell plc received a notice of request for indictment from the Milan public 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

237
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
prosecutor with respect to this matter. On December 20, 2017 , Royal 
Dutch Shell plc along with four former Shell employees including one 
former executive were remanded to trial in Milan. On May 14, 2018, a 
trial commenced in the Court of Milan. On September 18, 2018, Shell was 
joined to the proceedings as the civilly responsible party (responsabile 
civile) for the damages caused by the alleged illegal acts of the four 
former Shell employees. Three other Shell entities (Shell UK Ltd, Shell 
Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Ltd. and Shell Exporation 
and Production Africa Ltd. ) also joined the proceedings but were denied 
status as responsabile civile for their respective former employees at that 
phase of the proceedings. The trial is ongoing with closing arguments 
scheduled to begin on March 25, 2020. Based on Shell’s review of the 
Prosecutor of Milan’s file and all the information and facts currently 
available to Shell, management does not believe that there is a basis to 
convict Shell in Milan. Furthermore, management is not aware of any 
evidence to convict any former or current Shell employee in Milan. 
On September 20, 2018, a guilty judgement was filed by the Milan Judge 
of the Preliminary Hearing in a separate OPL 245 fast track trial of two 
individuals, neither of whom worked on behalf of Shell. That decision is 
under appeal.
In February 2019, we were informed by the Dutch Public Prosecutor’s 
Office (“DPP”) that they were nearing the conclusion of their investigation 
and preparing to prosecute Royal Dutch Shell plc for criminal charges 
directly or indirectly related to the 2011 settlement of disputes over OPL 
245 in Nigeria. On October 2, 2019 the U.S. Department of Justice 
(“DOJ”) informed Shell that it was closing its inquiry into Shell in relation 
to OPL 245. We understand that the decision was based on the facts 
available to the DOJ, including ongoing legal proceedings in Europe. 
There remains a high degree of uncertainty around the OPL 245 matters 
and contingencies discussed above, as well as their potential effect on 
future operations, earnings, cash flows and Shell’s financial condition. 
Accordingly, at this time, it is not practicable to estimate the magnitude 
and timing of any possible obligations or payments. Any violation of the 
US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other relevant anti-bribery, anti-
corruption or anti-money laundering legislation could have a material 
adverse effect on Royal Dutch Shell plc’s earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition.
26 – EMPLOYEES
Employee costs
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Remuneration 10,075 10,167 10,855
Social security contributions 844 810 844
Retirement benefits (see Note 17) 1,753 1,878 1,815
Share-based compensation (see Note 21) 537 531 802
Total [A] 13,209 13,386 14,316
[A] E xcludes employees seconded to joint ventures and associates.
Average employee numbers 
Thousand
2019 2018 2017
Integrated Gas 10 9 8
Upstream 14 14 16
Downstream 36 39 42
Corporate [A] 23 20 19
Total [B] 83 82 85
[A] I ncludes all employees working in business service centres irrespective of the segment they support. 
[B]
 E
xcludes employees seconded to joint ventures and associates (2019: 3,000 employees, 2018: 3,000 employees, 2017: 3,000 employees). 
27 – DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Remuneration of Directors of the Company 
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Emoluments 8 12 11
Value of released awards under long-term incentive plans 12 20 5
Employer contributions to pension plans 1 1 1
Emoluments comprise salaries and fees, annual bonuses (for the period for which performance is assessed) and other benefits. The value of released 
awards under long-term incentive plans for the period is in respect of the performance period ending in that year. In 2019, retirement benefits were 
accrued in respect of qualifying services under defined benefit plans by two Directors. 
Further information on the remuneration of the Directors can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 135-138. 
Financial Statements

238
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
27 – DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT continued
Directors and Senior Management expense
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Short-term benefits 18 26 23
Retirement benefits 3 3 3
Share-based compensation 15 14 17
Termination and related amounts 2 – 3
Total 38 43 46
Directors and Senior Management comprise members of the Executive Committee and the Non-executive Directors of the Company. 
Short-term benefits comprise salaries and fees, annual bonuses delivered in cash and shares (for the period for which performance is assessed), other 
benefits and employer social security contributions. 
28 – AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
 
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Fees in respect of the audit of the Consolidated and Parent Company 
 Financial Statements, including audit of consolidation returns 32 31 27
Other audit fees, principally in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries 18 16 21
Total audit fees 50 47 48
Audit-related fees 4 5 4
Fees in respect of other non-audit services – 1 1
Total 54 53 53
In addition, the auditor provided audit services to retirement benefit plans for employees of subsidiaries. Remuneration paid by those benefit plans 
amounted to $1 million in 2019 (2018: $1 million; 2017: $1 million). 
29 – POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
On February 27 , 2020 the fully-consolidated Shell Midstream Partners, L.P. (“SHLX”) signed an agreement with its Shell-controlled general partner to 
eliminate all incentive distribution rights and economic general partner interest in SHLX and convert the general partner’s two per cent general partner 
interest in SHLX into a non-economic general partner interest in SHLX. SHLX has also entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with Shell affiliates 
to acquire our 79% interest in the Mattox Pipeline Company LLC, which owns the Mattox Pipeline, and certain logistics assets at the Shell Norco 
Manufacturing Complex. As consideration for the assets and the elimination of incentive distribution rights, Shell will receive 160 million newly issued 
SHLX common units, plus $1.2 billion of Series A perpetual convertible preferred units at a price of $23.63 per unit. The transaction is expected to 
close in the second quarter of 2020 and is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. 
After the balance sheet date, we have seen macro-economic uncertainty with regards to prices and demand for oil, gas and products as a result of the 
COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak. Furthermore, recent global developments and uncertainty in oil supply in March have caused further abnormally 
large volatility in commodity markets. The scale and duration of these developments remain uncertain but could impact our earnings, cash flow and 
financial condition. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

239
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED)
The information set out on pages 239-256 is referred to as “unaudited” 
as a means of clarifying that it is not covered by the audit opinion of the 
independent registered public accounting firm that has audited and 
reported on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
PROVED RESERVES
Proved reserves estimates are calculated pursuant to the US Securities 
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Rules and the Financial Accounting 
Standard Board’s Topic 932. Proved reserves can be either developed 
or undeveloped. The definitions used are in accordance with the SEC 
Rule 4–10 (a) of Regulation S-X. We include proved reserves associated 
with future production that will be consumed in operations. 
Proved reserves shown are net of any quantities of crude oil or natural 
gas that are expected to be (or could be) taken as royalties in kind. 
Proved reserves outside North America include quantities that will be 
settled as royalties in cash. Proved reserves include certain quantities of 
crude oil or natural gas that will be produced under arrangements that 
involve Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in risks and 
rewards but do not transfer title of the product to those entities.
Subsidiaries’ proved reserves at December 31, 2019, were divided into 
79% developed and 21% undeveloped on a barrel of oil equivalent 
basis. For the Shell share of joint ventures and associates, the proved 
reserves at December 31, 2019, were divided into 86% developed and 
14% undeveloped on a barrel of oil equivalent basis.
Proved reserves are recognised under various forms of contractual 
agreements. Shell’s proved reserves volumes at December 31, 2019, 
present in agreements such as production-sharing contracts (“PSC”), 
tax/variable royalty contracts or other forms of economic entitlement 
contracts, where the Shell share of reserves can vary with commodity 
prices, were 2,170 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids, 
and 13,433 thousand million standard cubic feet (scf) of natural gas.
Proved reserves cannot be measured exactly because estimation 
of reserves involves subjective judgement (see “Risk factors” on 
page 27 and our “Proved reserves assurance process” below). 
These estimates remain subject to revision and are unaudited 
supplementary information.
PROVED RESERVES ASSURANCE PROCESS
A central group of reserves experts, who on average have around 28 
years’ experience in the oil and gas industry, undertake the primary 
assurance of the proved reserves bookings. This group of experts is part 
of the Resources Assurance and Reporting (“RAR”) organisation within 
Shell. A Vice President with 34 years’ experience in the oil and gas 
industry currently heads the RAR organisation. He is a member of 
the Society of Petroleum Engineers, Society of Petroleum Evaluation 
Engineers and holds a BA in mathematics from Oxford University and 
an MEng in Petroleum Engineering from Heriot Watt University. The 
RAR organisation reports directly to an Executive Vice President of 
Finance, who is a member of the Upstream Reserves Committee 
(“URC”). The URC is a multidisciplinary committee consisting of senior 
representatives from the Finance, Legal, Projects & Technology and 
Upstream organisations. The URC reviews and endorses all major 
(larger than 20 million barrels of oil equivalent) proved reserves 
bookings and de-bookings and endorses the total aggregated proved 
reserves. Final approval of all proved reserves bookings remains with 
Shell’s Executive Committee, and all proved reserves bookings are 
reviewed by Shell’s Audit Committee. The Internal Audit function also 
provides secondary assurance through audits of the control framework.
CRUDE OIL, NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS, SYNTHETIC CRUDE 
OIL AND BITUMEN 
Shell subsidiaries’ proved reserves of crude oil, natural gas liquids 
(“NGLs”), synthetic crude oil and bitumen at the end of the year; their 
share of the proved reserves of joint ventures and associates at the end 
of the year; and the changes in such reserves during the year are set 
out on pages 240-242. Significant changes in these proved reserves 
are discussed below, where ‘revisions and reclassifications’ are changes 
based on new information that resulted from development drilling, 
production history, and changes in economic factors.
PROVED RESERVES 2019–2018
Shell subsidiaries 
Europe 
The net decrease of 65 million barrels in sales and purchases resulted 
from divestments carried out in Denmark.
Asia 
The net increase of 226 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications 
was mainly in Oman and Kazakhstan.
USA 
The increase of 86 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications 
mainly resulted from field performance studies and development 
activities in the Permian Basin and in Mars and Ursa field in the Gulf of 
Mexico. The increase of 74 million barrels in extensions and discoveries 
was in the Permian Basin and PowerNap.
South America 
The increase of 72 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications 
mainly resulted from field performance studies and development 
activities in Lula and Lapa Field (Brazil). The net increase of 60 million 
barrels in extensions and discoveries was mainly in Mero (Brazil).
PROVED RESERVES 2018–2017
Shell subsidiaries 
Europe 
The net increase of 94 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications 
was mainly in the UK and Denmark.
Asia
The net increase of 227 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications 
was mainly in Oman and Kazakhstan. The sale of minerals in place of 
52 million barrels occurred in Iraq (West Qurna) and Oman 
(Mukhaizna).
USA 
The net increase of 81 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications 
was mainly in the Mars and Ursa fields in the Gulf of Mexico. The 
increase of 179 million barrels in extensions and discoveries was mainly 
in the Vito field in the Gulf of Mexico and in the Permian Basin.
South America 
The net increase of 139 million barrels in extensions and discoveries was 
mainly in Mero (Brazil) and Vaca Muerta (Argentina).
Financial Statements

240
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2019
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 368 1,502 129 420 1,017 23 661 – 1,027 4,486 661 – 5,147
Revisions and reclassifications 27 226 2 33 86 (2) (34) – 72 444 (34) – 410
Improved recovery – – – – – – – – 4 4 – – 4
Extensions and discoveries – 7 – 6 74 11 – – 60 158 – – 158
Purchases of minerals in place – – – – 5 – – – – 5 – – 5
Sales of minerals in place (65) – – – (29) (2) – – – (96) – – (96)
Production [A] (56) (184) (10) (64) (171) (12) (20) – (130) (627) (20) – (647)
At December 31 274 1,551 121 395 982 18 607 – 1,033 4,374 607 – 4,981
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 9 281 – – – – – – – 290 – – 290
Revisions and reclassifications 4 21 – – – – – – – 25 – – 25
Improved recovery – 4 – – – – – – – 4 – – 4
Extensions and discoveries – 2 – – – – – – – 2 – – 2
Purchases of minerals in place – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Sales of minerals in place – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Production (1) (37) – – – – – – – (38) – – (38)
At December 31 12 271 – – – – – – – 283 – – 283
Total 286 1,822 121 395 982 18 607 – 1,033 4,657 607 – 5,264
Reserves attributable to non-
controlling interest in Shell 
subsidiaries at December 31 – – – – – – 304 – – – 304 – 304
[A] I ncludes 1 million barrels consumed in operations for synthetic crude oil.
Proved developed reserves 2019
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 243 1,318 108 335 629 21 661 – 634 3,288 661 – 3,949
At December 31 156 1,403 106 314 641 15 607 – 675 3,310 607 – 3,917
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 8 251 – – – – – – – 259 – – 259
At December 31 11 240 – – – – – – – 251 – – 251
Proved undeveloped reserves 2019
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 124 185 21 85 388 2 – – 394 1,199 – – 1,199
At December 31 118 149 15 80 341 3 – – 358 1,064 – – 1,064
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 1 30 – – – – – – – 31 – – 31
At December 31 1 31 – – – – – – – 32 – – 32
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) continued
Financial Statements

241
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2018
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 356 1,482 132 463 899 22 649 – 946 4,300 649 – 4,949
Revisions and reclassifications 94 227 14 18 81 7 32 – 48 489 32 – 521
Improved recovery – 27 – – – – – – 14 41 – – 41
Extensions and discoveries 2 3 – – 179 6 – – 139 329 – – 329
Purchases of minerals in place – – – – – – – – 3 3 – – 3
Sales of minerals in place (14) (52) (8) – (2) – – – – (76) – – (76)
Production [A] (70) (185) (9) (61) (140) (13) (20) – (122) (600) (20) – (620)
At December 31 368 1,502 129 420 1,017 23 661 – 1,027 4,486 661 – 5,147
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 12 301 – – – – – – – 313 – – 313
Revisions and reclassifications (2) (2) – – – – – – – (4) – – (4)
Improved recovery – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Extensions and discoveries – 18 – – – – – – – 18 – – 18
Purchases of minerals in place – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Sales of minerals in place – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Production (1) (37) – – – – – – – (38) – – (38)
At December 31 9 281 – – – – – – – 290 – – 290
Total 377 1,783 129 420 1,017 23 661 – 1,027 4,776 661 – 5,437
Reserves attributable to 
non-controlling interest in Shell 
subsidiaries at December 31 – – – – – – 331 – – – 331 – 331
[A] I ncludes 1 million barrels consumed in operations for synthetic crude oil. 
Proved developed reserves 2018
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 250 1,364 46 373 569 21 649 – 651 3,274 649 – 3,923
At December 31 243 1,318 108 335 629 21 661 – 634 3,288 661 – 3,949
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 11 253 – – – – – – – 264 – – 264
At December 31 8 251 – – – – – – – 259 – – 259
Proved undeveloped reserves 2018
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 106 118 86 90 330 1 – – 295 1,026 – – 1,026
At December 31 124 185 21 85 388 2 – – 394 1,199 – – 1,199
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 1 48 – – – – – – – 49 – – 49
At December 31 1 30 – – – – – – – 31 – – 31
Financial Statements

242
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2017
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 435 1,386 128 529 491 18 2,014 2 992 3,979 2,014 2 5,995
Revisions and reclassifications 61 153 13 23 235 8 (3) 2 38 531 (3) 2 530
Improved recovery – 35 – – 38 – – – – 73 – – 73
Extensions and discoveries – 95 – – 242 7 – – 30 374 – – 374
Purchases of minerals in place – – – – 2 – 664 – – 2 664 – 666
Sales of minerals in place (50) – – (14) – – (1,992) (2) – (64) (1,992) (2) (2,058)
Production [A] (90) (187) (9) (75) (109) (11) (34) (2) (114) (595) (34) (2) (631)
At December 31 356 1,482 132 463 899 22 649 – 946 4,300 649 – 4,949
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 7 256 – – – – – – – 263 – – 263
Revisions and reclassifications 6 76 – – – – – – – 82 – – 82
Improved recovery – 3 – – – – – – – 3 – – 3
Extensions and discoveries – 1 – – – – – – – 1 – – 1
Purchases of minerals in place – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Sales of minerals in place – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Production (1) (35) – – – – – – – (36) – – (36)
At December 31 12 301 – – – – – – – 313 – – 313
Total 368 1,783 132 463 899 22 649 – 946 4,613 649 – 5,262
Reserves attributable to 
non-controlling interest in Shell 
subsidiaries at December 31 – – – – – – 325 – – – 325 – 325
[A] I ncludes 1 million barrels consumed in operations for synthetic crude oil. 
Proved developed reserves 2017
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 257 1,184 36 461 437 14 1,387 2 543 2,932 1,387 2 4,321
At December 31 250 1,364 46 373 569 21 649 – 651 3,274 649 – 3,923
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 4 215 – – – – – – – 219 – – 219
At December 31 11 253 – – – – – – – 264 – – 264
Proved undeveloped reserves 2017
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil Bitumen
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 178 202 92 68 54 4 627 – 449 1,047 627 – 1,674
At December 31 106 118 86 90 330 1 – – 295 1,026 – – 1,026
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 3 41 – – – – – – – 44 – – 44
At December 31 1 48 – – – – – – – 49 – – 49
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) continued
Financial Statements

243
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
NATURAL GAS 
Shell subsidiaries’ proved reserves of natural gas at the end of the year, 
their share of the proved reserves of joint ventures and associates at the 
end of the year, and the changes in such reserves during the years are 
set out on pages 244-246. Significant changes in these proved reserves 
are discussed below. Volumes are not adjusted to standard heat 
content. Apart from integrated projects, volumes of gas are reported on 
an “as-sold” basis. The price used to calculate future revenue and cash 
flows from proved gas reserves is the contract price or the 12-month 
average on “as-sold” volumes. Volumes associated with integrated 
projects are those measured at a designated transfer point between the 
upstream and downstream portions of the integrated project. Natural 
gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 
scf per barrel. 
PROVED RESERVES 2019–2018
Shell subsidiaries 
Asia 
The net increase of 859 thousand million scf in revisions and 
reclassifications was mainly in Qatar and Malaysia (Sabah and 
Sarawak).
Oceania
The net increase of 699 thousand million scf in revisions and 
reclassifications was mainly in Surat, Gorgon and Jansz-lo.
Africa
The net increase of 290 thousand million scf in revisions and 
reclassifications was mainly in Bonny and Gbaran (Nigeria).
Canada 
The net increase of 317 thousand million scf in extensions and 
discoveries was mainly in Groundbirch.
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
Europe
The net decrease of 322 thousand million scf in revisions and 
reclassifications was mainly in Groningen (Netherlands).
PROVED RESERVES 2018–2017
Shell subsidiaries 
Europe 
The net increase of 1,183 thousand million scf in revisions and 
reclassifications was mainly in Norway, the UK, Denmark and 
Germany. 
Asia 
The net decrease of 483 thousand million scf in revisions and 
reclassifications was mainly in Qatar, Malaysia and Kazakhstan. The 
increase of 354 thousand million scf in extensions and discoveries was 
in Malaysia.
Oceania
The net increase of 1,438 thousand million scf in revisions and 
reclassifications was mainly in the Surat Basin, Jansz-lo and Gorgon (all 
Australia).
Africa
The net increase of 896 thousand million scf in revisions and 
reclassifications was mainly in Gbaran, Assa North, Forcaddos-Yokri 
(Nigeria) and Sapphire (Egypt).
USA 
The net decrease of 296 thousand million scf in revisions and 
reclassifications was mainly in Tioga. The increase of 283 thousand 
million scf in extensions and discoveries was mainly in the Permian 
Basin.
Shell share of joint ventures and associates 
Europe
The net decrease of 3,653 thousand million scf in revisions and 
reclassifications was mainly in Groningen (the Netherlands). 
Groningen: The decrease of 3,673 thousand million scf is as a result of 
the Dutch cabinet’s announcement on March 29, 2018, about its 
aspiration to end Groningen production by 2030, and an agreement 
signed by Shell, ExxonMobil and the Dutch government in June 2018. 
The proved reserves are aligned with the new regulatory framework 
and the updated production outlook issued in November 2018 by the 
Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs.
Financial Statements

244
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2019
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 3,600 10,631 8,427 2,544 2,147 989 1,509 29,847
Revisions and reclassifications (46) 859 699 290 114 235 29 2,180
Improved recovery – – – – – – 3 3
Extensions and discoveries – 36 – 152 142 317 37 684
Purchases of minerals in place – – – – 5 – – 5
Sales of minerals in place (210) – – – (132) (30) – (372)
Production [A] (346) (908) (766) (378) (408) (230) (319) (3,355)
At December 31 2,998 10,618 8,360 2,608 1,868 1,281 1,259 28,992
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 1,163 4,581 24 – – – – 5,768
Revisions and reclassifications (322) 64 34 – – – – (224)
Improved recovery – 1 – – – – – 1
Extensions and discoveries – 5 – – – – – 5
Purchases of minerals in place – – – – – – – –
Sales of minerals in place – – – – – – – –
Production [B] (246) (453) (22) – – – – (721)
At December 31 595 4,198 36 – – – – 4,829
Total 3,593 14,816 8,396 2,608 1,868 1,281 1,259 33,821
Reserves attributable to non-controlling 
interest in shell subsidiaries at December 31 – – – – – – – –
[A] I ncludes 247 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations. 
[B] I
ncludes 42 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations.
Proved developed reserves 2019
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 2,658 10,092 5,820 1,573 1,706 721 1,238 23,808
At December 31 2,060 10,091 5,769 1,523 1,615 781 968 22,807
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 1,136 3,938 24 – – – – 5,099
At December 31 555 3,519 36 – – – – 4,110
Proved undeveloped reserves 2019
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 942 539 2,607 971 441 268 271 6,039
At December 31 937 528 2,591 1,085 254 499 291 6,185
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 27 643 – – – – – 670
At December 31 39 680 – – – – – 719
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) continued
Financial Statements

245
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2018
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 3,100 11,822 7,9 7 8 2,082 2,569 1,272 1,501 30,324
Revisions and reclassifications 1,183 (483) 1,438 896 (296) (153) 181 2,766
Improved recovery – – – – – – 7 7
Extensions and discoveries 3 354 – – 283 131 65 836
Purchases of minerals in place – – – – – – 14 14
Sales of minerals in place (192) (157) (232) – (32) – – (613)
Production [A] (494) (906) (757) (434) (377) (261) (258) (3,487)
At December 31 3,600 10,631 8,427 2,544 2,147 989 1,509 29,847
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 5,125 4,964 19 – – – – 10,108
Revisions and reclassifications (3,653) 62 25 – – – – (3,566)
Improved recovery – – – – – – – –
Extensions and discoveries – 5 – – – – – 5
Purchases of minerals in place – – – – – – – –
Sales of minerals in place (37) – – – – – – (37)
Production [B] (273) (450) (20) – – – – (743)
At December 31 1,163 4,581 24 – – – – 5,768
Total 4,763 15,212 8,451 2,544 2,147 989 1,509 35,615
Reserves attributable to non-controlling 
interest in Shell subsidiaries at December 31 – – – – – – – –
[A] I ncludes 245 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations.
[B] I
ncludes 41 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations.
Proved developed reserves 2018
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 2,978 11,460 5,026 1,493 1,652 859 1,225 24,693
At December 31 2,658 10,092 5,820 1,573 1,706 721 1,238 23,808
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 5,055 4,275 19 – – – – 9,349
At December 31 1,136 3,938 24 – – – – 5,099
Proved undeveloped reserves 2018
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 122 362 2,952 589 917 413 276 5,631
At December 31 942 539 2,607 971 441 268 271 6,039
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 70 689 – – – – – 759
At December 31 27 643 – – – – – 670
Financial Statements

246
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2017
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 3,741 11,073 9,051 2,225 675 844 1,650 29,259
Revisions and reclassifications 197 979 (574) 287 958 412 45 2,304
Improved recovery – 66 – – 74 – – 140
Extensions and discoveries 2 549 – – 1,163 205 6 1,925
Purchases of minerals in place – – 204 – 3 43 27 277
Sales of minerals in place (224) – – (7) (11) (6) – (248)
Production [A] (616) (845) (703) (423) (293) (226) (227) (3,333)
At December 31 3,100 11,822 7,9 7 8 2,082 2,569 1,272 1,501 30,324
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 6,497 4,754 31 – – – – 11,282
Revisions and reclassifications (1,027) 652 9 – – – – (366)
Improved recovery – 1 – – – – – 1
Extensions and discoveries – 11 – – – – – 11
Purchases of minerals in place – – – – – – – –
Sales of minerals in place – – – – – – – –
Production [B] (345) (454) (21) – – – – (820)
At December 31 5,125 4,964 19 – – – – 10,108
Total 8,225 16,786 7,9 9 7 2,082 2,569 1,272 1,501 40,432
Reserves attributable to non-controlling 
interest in Shell subsidiaries at December 31 – 2 – – – – – 2
[A] I ncludes 215 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations.
[B] I
ncludes 41 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations.
Proved developed reserves 2017
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 3,437 10,569 3,966 1,618 563 458 1,172 21,783
At December 31 2,978 11,460 5,026 1,493 1,652 859 1,225 24,693
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 5,240 4,110 31 – – – – 9,381
At December 31 5,055 4,275 19 – – – – 9,349
Proved undeveloped reserves 2017
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 304 504 5,085 607 112 386 478 7, 476
At December 31 122 362 2,952 589 917 413 276 5,631
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 1,257 644 – – – – – 1,901
At December 31 70 689 – – – – – 759
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) continued
Financial Statements

247
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
STANDARDISED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE CASH FLOWS 
The SEC Form 20-F requires the disclosure of a standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows, relating to proved reserves quantities and 
based on a 12-month unweighted arithmetic average sales price, calculated on a first-day-of-the-month basis, with cost factors based on those at 
the end of each year, currently enacted tax rates and a 10% annual discount factor. In our view, the information so calculated does not provide a 
reliable measure of future cash flows from proved reserves, nor does it permit a realistic comparison to be made of one entity with another because 
the assumptions used cannot reflect the varying circumstances within each entity. In addition, a substantial but unknown proportion of future real 
cash flows from oil and gas production activities is expected to derive from reserves which have already been discovered, but which cannot yet be 
regarded as proved.
STANDARDISED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE CASH FLOWS RELATING TO PROVED RESERVES AT DECEMBER 31 
2019 – Shell subsidiaries
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Future cash inflows 33,762 111,802 71,775 31,046 55,800 31,522 64,957 400,664
Future production costs 11,818 32,581 21,589 12,158 30,139 16,651 32,362 1 5 7, 2 9 8
Future development costs 6,047 13,449 10,103 4,081 11,137 4,603 13,219 62,639
Future tax expenses 9,285 25,938 7, 0 1 6 10,542 2,397 2,313 5,429 62,920
Future net cash flows 6,612 39,834 33,067 4,265 12,127 7,95 5 13,947 117,807
Effect of discounting cash flows at 10% 1,917 17, 8 5 1 13,328 377 1,815 5,571 4,094 44,953
Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows 4,695 21,983 19,739 3,888 10,312 2,384 9,853 72,854
Non-controlling interest included – – – – – 1,371 – 1,371
2019 – Shell share of joint ventures and associates
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Future cash inflows 3,615 38,099 122 – – – – 41,836
Future production costs 2,810 18,336 81 – – – – 21,227
Future development costs 935 6,946 36 – – – – 7,917
Future tax expenses 718 6,160 4 – – – – 6,882
Future net cash flows (848) 6,657 1 – – – – 5,812
Effect of discounting cash flows at 10% (266) 1,190 (7) – – – – 917
Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows (582)[A] 5,467 8 – – – – 4,893
[A] W hile proved reserves are economically producible at the 2019 yearly average price, the standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows was negative for those proved reserves at 
December 31, 2019, due to addition of overhead, tax and abandonment costs and ongoing commitments post production of proved reserves.
2018 – Shell subsidiaries
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Future cash inflows 50,392 122,037 72,355 36,080 68,546 34,719 74,417 458,545
Future production costs 18,400 32,773 22,219 13,237 32,533 17, 37 8 42,301 178,842
Future development costs 8,649 12,301 11,598 4,672 11,486 4,674 6,991 60,370
Future tax expenses 12,603 30,994 5,899 12,805 1,948 3,257 7, 76 4 75,271
Future net cash flows 10,739 45,969 32,639 5,366 22,578 9,411 17, 3 6 0 144,062
Effect of discounting cash flows at 10% 3,024 20,957 12,130 572 5,039 6,446 6,048 54,217
Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows 7, 7 1 5 25,012 20,509 4,794 17, 5 3 9 2,964 11,312 89,845
Non-controlling interest included – 1 – – – 1,638 – 1,639
Financial Statements

248
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
2018 – Shell share of joint ventures and associates
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Future cash inflows 5,260 44,327 104 – – – – 49,691
Future production costs 2,712 20,886 80 – – – – 23,677
Future development costs 1,083 6,726 36 – – – – 7, 8 4 4
Future tax expenses 1,136 7,12 8 1 – – – – 8,265
Future net cash flows 329 9,588 (13) – – – – 9,904
Effect of discounting cash flows at 10% (76) 2,759 (8) – – – – 2,675
Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows 405 6,829 (5)[A] – – – – 7, 2 2 9
[A] W hile proved reserves are economically producible at the 2018 yearly average price, the standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows was negative for those proved reserves at 
December 31, 2018, due to addition of overhead, tax and abandonment costs and ongoing commitments post production of proved reserves.
2017 – Shell subsidiaries
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Future cash inflows 34,902 94,535 51,052 29,276 49,389 32,576 50,620 342,350
Future production costs 15,672 30,894 18,264 11,496 29,505 20,242 30,924 156,997
Future development costs 7, 8 52 12,558 14,062 4,920 14,200 5,115 6,210 64,917
Future tax expenses 5,747 18,048 1,169 9,064 2,177 2,509 4,888 43,602
Future net cash flows 5,631 33,035 17, 5 5 7 3,796 3,507 4,710 8,598 76,834
Effect of discounting cash flows at 10% 825 15,115 5,773 (9) (796) 3,077 2,325 26,310
Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows 4,806 17,9 2 0 11,784 3,805 4,303 1,633 6,273 50,524
Non-controlling interest included – 1 – – – 870 – 871
2017 – Shell share of joint ventures and associates
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Future cash inflows 22,725 37,95 4 69 – – – – 60,748
Future production costs 17, 4 4 2 17, 5 9 2 54 – – – – 35,088
Future development costs 1,051 7, 6 0 5 64 – – – – 8,720
Future tax expenses 1,803 5,172 – – – – – 6,975
Future net cash flows 2,429 7, 5 8 5 (49) – – – – 9,965
Effect of discounting cash flows at 10% 1,008 1,862 (14) – – – – 2,856
Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows 1,421 5,723 (35)[A] – – – – 7,1 0 9
[A] W hile proved reserves are economically producible at the 2017 yearly average price, the standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows was negative for those proved reserves 
at December 31, 2017 , due to addition of overhead, tax and abandonment costs and ongoing commitments post production of proved reserves.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) continued
Financial Statements

249
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
CHANGE IN STANDARDISED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATING TO PROVED RESERVES 
2019
$ million
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share 
of joint ventures 
and associates Total
At January 1 89,845 7, 2 2 9 9 7, 074
Net changes in prices and production costs (18,759) (1,017) (19,776)
Revisions of previous reserves estimates 13,777 (293) 13,484
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery 5,193 93 5,286
Purchases and sales of minerals in place (2,831) – (2,831)
Development cost related to future production (9,417) (2) (9,419)
Sales and transfers of oil and gas, net of production costs (33,319) (3,918) (37,237)
Development cost incurred during the year 10,430 702 11,132
Accretion of discount 12,004 1,133 13,137
Net change in income tax 5,931 966 6,897
At December 31 72,854 4,893 7 7, 747
2018
$ million
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share 
of joint ventures 
and associates Total
At January 1 50,524 7,1 0 9 5 7, 6 3 3
Net changes in prices and production costs 58,128 6,156 64,284
Revisions of previous reserves estimates 15,265 (1,447) 13,818
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery 8,936 532 9,468
Purchases and sales of minerals in place (3,401) (20) (3,421)
Development cost related to future production (3,876) (308) (4,184)
Sales and transfers of oil and gas, net of production costs (38,014) (4,858) (42,872)
Development cost incurred during the year 10,724 666 11,390
Accretion of discount 7 ,060 994 8,054
Net change in income tax (15,501) (1,595) (17, 0 9 6)
At December 31 89,845 7, 2 2 9 9 7, 074
2017
$ million
Shell 
subsidiaries
Shell share 
of joint ventures 
and associates Total
At January 1 2 7, 7 1 8 4,176 31,894
Net changes in prices and production costs 34,190 3,952 38,142
Revisions of previous reserves estimates 13,769 1,931 15,700
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery 3,901 79 3,980
Purchases and sales of minerals in place (2,068) – (2,068)
Development cost related to future production (4,823) 461 (4,362)
Sales and transfers of oil and gas, net of production costs ( 2 7, 5 4 4 ) (3,652) (31,196)
Development cost incurred during the year 14,262 536 14,798
Accretion of discount 3,844 630 4,474
Net change in income tax (12,725) (1,004) (13,729)
At December 31 50,524 7,1 0 9 5 7, 6 3 3
Financial Statements

250
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES CAPITALISED COSTS 
The aggregate amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, relating to oil and gas exploration and 
production activities, and the aggregate amount of the related depreciation, depletion and amortisation at December 31, are shown in the 
tables below. 
Shell subsidiaries
$ million
2019 2018
Cost
Proved properties [A] 265,700 265,489
Unproved properties 18,669 21,256
Support equipment and facilities 11,043 6,404
295,412 293,149
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation
Proved properties [A] 129,809 126,641
Unproved properties 4,089 3,362
Support equipment and facilities 4,078 3,424
1 37,9 76 133,427
Net capitalised costs 1 5 7, 4 3 6 159,722
[A] I ncludes capitalised asset decommissioning and restoration costs and related depreciation.
Shell share of joint ventures and associates 
$ million
2019 2018
Cost
Proved properties [A] 46,895 44,331
Unproved properties 2,428 2,591
Support equipment and facilities 4,882 4,399
54,205 51,321
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation
Proved properties [A] 34,120 31,702
Unproved properties – –
Support equipment and facilities 2,817 2,586
36,937 34,288
Net capitalised costs 17, 2 6 8 17, 0 3 3
[A] I ncludes capitalised asset decommissioning and restoration costs and related depreciation.
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES COSTS INCURRED 
Costs incurred during the year in oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development activities, whether capitalised or charged to 
income currently, are shown in the tables below. As a result of the adoption of IFRS 16 Leases as of January 1, 2019, leases are included in year 
2019. Development costs include capitalised asset decommissioning and restoration costs (including increases or decreases arising from changes 
to cost estimates or to the discount rate applied to the obligations) and exclude costs of acquiring support equipment and facilities, but include 
depreciation thereon. 
Shell subsidiaries
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Other [A] Total
Acquisition of properties
Proved 3 105 – 10 – – – 118
Unproved – 11 – 67 118 5 3 204
Exploration 428 165 117 253 1,723 402 500 3,588 [B]
Development 2,054 1,434 1,225 1,480 4,455 287 2,418 13,353
[A] Co mprises Canada and Mexico. 
[B]
 I
ncludes $1,195 million of Shales-related exploration activities. In 2019, we participated in 231 Shales productive exploratory wells with proved reserves allocated (Shell share: 117 wells).
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) continued
Financial Statements

251
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
2018
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Other [A] Total
Acquisition of properties
Proved 3 3 – 596 44 – – 646
Unproved 2 6 – 76 44 310 486 924
Exploration 384 182 49 188 1,912 251 502 3,468 [B]
Development 1,452 1,102 1,632 962 4,052 505 2,095 11,800
[A] Co mprises Canada, Honduras and Mexico.
[B]
 I
ncludes $1,581 million of Shales-related exploration activities. In 2018, we participated in 234 Shales productive exploratory wells with proved reserves allocated (Shell share: 118 wells).
2017
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Other [A] Total
Acquisition of properties
Proved – – – 10 – 2,246 19 2,275
Unproved – 12 – 18 141 320 57 548
Exploration 329 135 38 138 1,354 235 600 2,829
Development 776 840 2,493 371 4,123 722 1,671 10,996
[A] Co mprises Canada, Honduras and Mexico.
SHELL SHARE OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 
Joint ventures and associates did not incur costs in the acquisition of oil and gas properties in 2019, 2018 or 2017.
2019
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Exploration 1 116 12 – – – – 129
Development 94 1,400 65 – – – – 1,559
2018
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Exploration – 90 14 – – – – 104
Development 229 1,026 79 – – – – 1,334
2017
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Exploration 3 82 8 – – – – 93
Development (22)[A] 660 58 – – – – 696
[A] I ncludes a revision of decommissioning and restoration provisions.
Financial Statements

252
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES EARNINGS 
The results of operations for oil and gas producing activities are shown in the tables below. Taxes other than income tax include cash-paid royalties 
to governments outside North America.
Shell subsidiaries 
2019
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Other [A] Total
Revenue
Third parties 1,257 3,065 931 1,936 2,638 632 844 11,303
Sales between businesses 4,911 10,526 4,719 3,289 7, 7 8 6 1,936 7, 6 47 40,814
Total 6,168 13,591 5,650 5,225 10,424 2,568 8,491 52,117
Production costs excluding taxes 1,582 2,065 1,178 1,062 2,807 983 1,135 10,812
Taxes other than income tax 94 749 136 370 103 – 2,613 4,065
Exploration 619 583 107 187 411 159 288 2,354
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 2,604 2,130 1,957 1,354 6,932 858 3,929 19,764
Other costs/(income) (20) 1,599 (105) 121 (575) 818 1,379 3,217
Earnings before taxation 1,289 6,465 2,377 2,131 746 (250) (853) 11,905
Taxation charge/(credit) 848 4,013 1,094 1,431 154 (110) (78) 7, 3 52
Earnings after taxation 441 2,452 1,283 700 592 (140) (775) 4,553
[A] Co mprises Canada and Mexico.
2018
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Other [A] Total
Revenue
Third parties 1,875 3,364 1,389 2,401 2,165 507 1,023 12,724
Sales between businesses 6,705 11,284 4,683 3,586 7, 7 1 6 1,946 7,1 5 4 43,074
Total 8,580 14,648 6,072 5,987 9,881 2,453 8,177 55,798
Production costs excluding taxes 2,262 2,143 1,073 1,093 2,573 1,069 1,401 11,614
Taxes other than income tax 122 841 199 328 83 – 2,767 4,340
Exploration 277 149 78 144 341 114 237 1,340
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 2,684 2,301 1,571 1,394 4,543 (346) 3,271 15,418
Other costs/(income) 947 (180) (514) 609 447 667 849 2,825
Earnings before taxation 2,288 9,394 3,665 2,419 1,894 949 (348) 20,261
Taxation (credit)/charge 2,047 4,851 893 902 550 236 1,162 10,641
Earnings after taxation 241 4,543 2,772 1,517 1,344 713 (1,510) 9,620
[A] Co mprises Canada, Honduras and Mexico.
2017
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Other [A] Total
Revenue
Third parties 1,193 2,708 1,414 1,872 1,080 339 689 9,295
Sales between businesses 7,12 0 9,061 2,400 3,218 5,119 2,938 5,245 35,101
Total 8,313 11,769 3,814 5,090 6,199 3,277 5,934 44,396
Production costs excluding taxes 2,509 2,469 1,110 1,365 2,558 1,571 1,218 12,800
Taxes other than income tax 89 556 119 287 98 1 1,691 2,841
Exploration 243 245 42 129 868 142 276 1,945
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 2,560 2,892 1,777 1,863 3,410 3,886 3,374 19,762
Other costs/(income) (157) 1,073 (382) 145 114 1,050 469 2,312
Earnings before taxation 3,069 4,534 1,148 1,301 (849) (3,373) (1,094) 4,736
Taxation charge/(credit) 1,689 2,969 (202) (361) 363 (1,486) (294) 2,678
Earnings after taxation 1,380 1,565 1,350 1,662 (1,212) (1,887) (800) 2,058
[A] Co mprises Canada, Honduras and Mexico. 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) continued
Financial Statements

253
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SHELL SHARE OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Third-party revenue 1,233 5,475 81 – – – – 6,789
Total 1,233 5,475 81 – – – – 6,789
Production costs excluding taxes 249 669 88 – – – – 1,006
Taxes other than income tax 75 1,037 6 – – – – 1,118
Exploration 4 51 – – – – – 55
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 217 949 415 – – – – 1,581
Other costs/(income) 547 622 (18) – 1 1 – 1,153
Earnings before taxation 141 2,147 (410) – (1) (1) – 1,876
Taxation charge 39 957 – – – – – 996
Earnings after taxation 102 1,190 (410) – (1) (1) – 880
2018
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Third-party revenue 1,395 5,884 79 – – – – 7, 3 5 8
Total 1,395 5,884 79 – – – – 7, 3 5 8
Production costs excluding taxes 307 674 105 – – – – 1,086
Taxes other than income tax 82 1,259 4 – – – – 1,345
Exploration 5 45 – – – – – 50
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 318 1,016 163 – – – – 1,497
Other costs/(income) 595 615 (26) – – – – 1,184
Earnings before taxation 88 2,275 (167) – – – – 2,196
Taxation charge 7 975 – – – – – 982
Earnings after taxation 81 1,300 (167) – – – – 1,214
2017
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Third-party revenue 1,646 4,503 58 – – – – 6,207
Total 1,646 4,503 58 – – – – 6,207
Production costs excluding taxes 337 729 93 – – – – 1,159
Taxes other than income tax 631 705 4 – – – – 1,340
Exploration 7 57 4 – – – – 68
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 188 1,654 40 – – – – 1,882
Other costs/(income) (83) 511 (60) – – – – 368
Earnings before taxation 566 847 (23) – – – – 1,390
Taxation charge 173 197 – – – – – 370
Earnings after taxation 393 650 (23) – – – – 1,020
Financial Statements

254
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
ACREAGE AND WELLS
The tables below reflect acreage and wells of Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. The term “gross” refers to the total activity in which 
Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates have an interest. The term “net” refers to the sum of the fractional interests owned by Shell 
subsidiaries plus the Shell share of joint ventures and associates’ fractional interests. Data below are rounded to the nearest whole number. 
Oil and gas acreage (at December 31)
Thousand acres
2019 2018 2017
Developed Undeveloped Developed Undeveloped Developed Undeveloped
Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
Europe [A] 6,289 1,915 13,864 6,082 6,022 [B] 1,954 [B] 14,385 [C] 6,540 [C] 6,214 [D] 2,051 [D] 13,079 [E] 5,823 [E]
Asia 21,387 7, 67 2 31,486 14,880 22,087 7, 8 8 5 31,676 15,433 25,975 9,139 35,305 18,730
Oceania 3,025 1,215 11,720 6,260 3,202 1,220 15,319 [F] 10,095 [F] 3,296 1,255 22,295 [G] 13,985
Africa 4,663 1,938 62,965 32,564 4,666 1,940 38,874 22,732 4,663 1,938 33,453 20,811
North America – USA 1,333 877 2,489 1,917 1,541 952 2,133 1,635 1,936 1,134 2,718 1,937
North America – Mexico – – 5,178 3,291 – – 5,178 3,885 – – – –
North America – Canada 483 329 1,783 1,265 1,108 752 1,681 1,193 953 651 15,818 14,468
South America 1,393 595 16,446 10,214 1,490 710 10,352 6,725 1,302 606 9,338 6,196
Total 38,573 14,541 145,931 76,473 40,116 15,413 119,598 68,238 44,339 16,774 132,006 81,950
[A] I ncludes Greenland for 2018 and 2017 . 
[B]
 C
orrected from 6,228 (1,958 net). 
[C]
 C
orrected from 15,443 (6,913 net).
[D]
 C
orrected from 6,463 (2,071 net).
[E]
 C
orrected from 14,119 (6,187 net).
[F]
 C
orrected from 15,662 (10,298 net).
[G]
 C
orrected from 22,406.
 
Number of productive wells [A] (at December 31)
2019 2018 2017
Oil Gas Oil Gas Oil Gas
Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
Europe 893 217 1,091 345 1,077 277 1,201 379 1,138 [B] 299 [B] 1,255 [C] 396 [C]
Asia 7, 767 2,841 336 193 7, 4 5 5[D] 2,728 [D] 331 189 9,279 3,067 682 269
Oceania – – 3,352 1,896 – – 3,411 1,924 – – 3,499 1,926
Africa 514 206 202 139 478 189 195 132 380 155 180 122
North America – USA 14,935 7, 6 3 8 822 516 15,224 7, 74 5 1,479 672 15,408 7, 8 17 1,636 717
North America – Canada – – 748 676 1 1 936 846 – – 892 794
South America 137 63 58 36 117 [E] 52 [E] 63 [F] 41 111 47 55 32
Total 24,246 10,965 6,609 3,801 24,352 10,992 7, 61 6 4,183 26,316 11,385 8,199 4,256
[A] T he number of productive wells with multiple completions at December 31, 2019, was 955 gross (418 net); December 31, 2018: 1,061 gross (454 net), corrected from 1,132 Gross (489 Net); 
December 31, 2017: 1,696 gross (636 net).
[B]
 C
orrected from 1,156 (303 net).
[C]
 C
orrected from 1,235 (392 net).
[D]
 C
orrected from 7 ,498 (2,750 net).
[E]
 C
orrected from 119 (53 net).
[F]
 C
orrected from 62.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) continued
Financial Statements

255
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Number of net productive wells and dry holes drilled
2019 2018 2017
Productive Dry Productive Dry Productive Dry
Exploratory [A]
Europe – 4 1 2 – 1
Asia 25 17 22 [B] 11 [C] 18 [D] 5
Oceania – 2 – – 2 –
Africa 8 8 6 6 2 3
North America – USA 89 9 104 4 9 6
North America – Canada 24 – 14 30 5
South America 8 1 6 7 6 –
Total 154 41 153 30 67 20
Development
Europe 4 1 4 – 5 –
Asia 182 – 198 [E] – 291 [F] 4
Oceania 16 – 54 [G] – 63 –
Africa 34 – 24 1 24 3
North America – USA 280 5 276 – 237 –
North America – Canada 6 – 53 – 56 1
South America 10 1 5 – 1 –
Total 532 7 614 1 677 8
[A] P roductive wells are wells with proved reserves allocated. Wells in the process of drilling are excluded and presented separately below. 
[B]
 C
orrected from 9. 
[C]
 C
orrected from 10. 
[D]
 C
orrected from 3.
[E]
 C
orrected from 222. 
[F]
 C
orrected from 312.
[G]
 C
orrected from 41.
Number of wells in the process of exploratory drilling [A]
At January 1
Wells in the process of 
drilling at January 1 and 
allocated proved reserves 
during the year
Wells in the process 
of drilling at January 1 
and determined as dry 
during the year
New wells in the 
process of drilling at 
December 31 At December 31
Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
Europe 19 10 (1) – (5) (3) 2 1 15 8
Asia 75 [B] 28 [B] (21) (8) (21) (8) 20 8 53 20
Oceania 42 [C] 15 – – (3) (1) 1 1 40 15
Africa 47 31 (3) (3) (6) (6) 7 6 45 28
North America – USA 239 [D] 158 [D] (126) (60) (13) (9) 97 37 197 126
North America – Canada 5 [E] 5 [E] (5) (5) – – 21 21 21 21
South America 37 [F] 19 (10) (7) (1) – 7 4 33 16
Total 464 266 (166) (83) (49) (27) 155 78 404 234
[A] W ells in the process of exploratory drilling includes wells pending further evaluation.
[B]
 C
orrected from 68 (25 net).
[C]
 C
orrected from 45.
[D]
 C
orrected from 151 (96 net).
[E]
 C
orrected from 0 (0 net).
[F]
 C
orrected from 36.
Financial Statements

256
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Number of wells in the process of development drilling
2019
At January 1 At December 31
Gross Net Gross Net
Europe 5 2 11 3
Asia 41 [A] 16 [A] 53 21
Oceania 19 [B] 8 [B] 123 71
Africa 5 5 5 2
North America – USA 40 [C] 20 [C] 41 34
North America – Canada 12 [D] 12 [D] – –
South America 9 4 12 8
Total 131 67 245 139
[A] C orrected from 36 (14 net).
[B]
 C
orrected from 3 (1 net).
[C]
 C
orrected from 64 (33 net). 
[D]
 C
orrected from 17 (17 net).
In addition to the present activities mentioned above, the following recovery methods are operational in the following countries: water flooding (Brazil 
(including water alternating gas), Brunei, Egypt, Malaysia, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Russia, the UK and the USA); gas injection (Brunei, Kazakhstan, 
Malaysia, Nigeria and Oman); steam injection (the Netherlands, Oman and the USA), and polymer flooding (Oman). 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) continued
Financial Statements

257
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
258 Sta tement of Income
258 S
tatement of Comprehensive Income
258 B
alance Sheet
259 Sta
tement of Changes in Equity
259 Sta
tement of Cash Flows
260 N
otes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
260 N
ote 1 Basis of preparation
260 N
ote 2 Significant accounting policies
261 N
ote 3 Interest and other income/expense
261 N
ote 4 Investments in subsidiaries 
261 N
ote 5 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
261 N
ote 6 Taxation
262 N
ote 7 Financial instruments
262 N
ote 8 Share capital
264 N
ote 9 Other reserves
264 N
ote 10 Dividends
265 N
ote 11 Legal proceedings and other contingencies
265 N
ote 12 Directors and Senior Management
265 N
ote 13 Related parties
265 N
ote 14 Auditor’s remuneration
PARENT COMPANY 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
Financial Statements

258
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
STATEMENT OF INCOME
$ million
Notes 2019 2018
Dividend income 21,051 23,278
Interest and other income 3 101 141
Administrative expenses (54) (43)
Interest and other expense 3 (146) (222)
Income before taxation 20,952 23,154
Taxation charge 6 567 44
Income for the period 20,385 23,110
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
$ million
2019 2018
Income for the period 20,385 23,110
Comprehensive income for the period 20,385 23,110
BALANCE SHEET
$ million
Notes Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 4 256,654 256,920
Deferred tax 6 – 355
256,654 2 57, 275
Current assets
Amounts due from subsidiaries 13 1,864 9,263
Cash and cash equivalents 4 3
1,868 9,266
Total assets 258,522 266,541
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 5 1,775 4,862
Total liabilities 1,775 4,862
Equity
Share capital 8 657 685
Other reserves 9 235,561 235,536
Retained earnings 20,529 25,458
Total equity 256,747 261,679
Total liabilities and equity 258,522 266,541
Signed on behalf of the Board
/s/ Jessica Uhl
JESSICA UHL
Chief Financial Officer 
March 11, 2020
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
Financial Statements

259
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
$ million
Notes
Share  
capital
Other 
reserves
Retained 
earnings
Total 
equity
At January 1, 2019 685 235,536 25,458 261,679
Comprehensive income for the period – – 20,385 20,385
Dividends 10 – – (15,199) (15,199)
Repurchases of shares 8 (28) 28 (10,286) (10,286)
Share-based compensation 9 – (3) 171 168
At December 31, 2019 657 235,561 20,529 256,747
At January 1, 2018 696 235,366 21,778 2 57, 8 4 0
Comprehensive income for the period – – 23,110 23,110
Dividends 10 – – (15,675) (15,675)
Repurchases of shares 8 (11) 11 (4,519) (4,519)
Share-based compensation [A] 9 – 159 764 923
At December 31, 2018 685 235,536 25,458 261,679
[A] T he amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payment  became effective January 1, 2018. Following adoption of the amendments, components of share-based payments (related to tax) that were 
previously classified as cash-settled are classified as equity-settled from 2018 onwards.
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
$ million
Notes 2019 2018
Income for the period 20,385 23,110
Adjustment for:
Dividend income (21,051) (23,278)
Taxation charge 567 44
Interest income (101) (141)
Interest expense 111 156
Share-based compensation 19 16
Decrease/(Increase) in working capital 4,008 (3,796)
Cash flow from operating activities 3,938 (3,889)
Dividends received 21,051 23,278
Interest received 101 141
Share-based compensation 408 248
Cash flow from investing activities 21,560 23,667
Cash dividends paid 10 (15,198) (15,675)
Shares repurchased 8 (10,188) (3,947)
Interest and other expenses paid (111) (156)
Cash flow from financing activities (25,497) (19,778)
Change in cash and cash equivalents 1 –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 3 3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 4 3
Financial Statements

260
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 BASIS OF PREPARATION 
The Financial Statements of Royal Dutch Shell plc (the “Company”) have 
been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006 (the “Act”) and with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union. As applied to the Company, 
there are no material differences from IFRS as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”); therefore, the Financial Statements 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. 
As described in the accounting policies in Note 2, the Financial 
Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention 
except for certain items measured at fair value. Those accounting policies 
have been applied consistently in all periods. 
The Financial Statements were approved and authorised for issue by the 
Board of Directors on March 11, 2020. 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires 
the use of certain accounting estimates. It also requires management to 
exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company’s 
accounting policies. Actual results may differ from those estimates. 
The financial results of the Company are included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements on pages 190-238. The financial results of the 
Company incorporate the results of the Dividend Access Trust (the “Trust”), 
the financial statements of which are presented on pages 268-271. 
The Company’s principal activity is being the parent company for Shell, 
as described in Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(see page 195) 
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
The Company’s accounting policies follow those of Shell as set out in Note 
2A of the Consolidated Financial Statements (see pages 195-203). The 
following are Company-specific policies. 
PRESENTATION AND FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY 
The Company’s presentation and functional currency is US dollars 
(dollars). 
INVESTMENTS 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, net of any impairment. 
Investments are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts for those investments 
may not be recoverable. For the purposes of determining whether 
impairment of investments in subsidiaries has occurred, and the extent 
of any impairment loss or its reversal, the key assumptions management 
uses in estimating risk-adjusted future cash flows for value-in-use measures 
include future oil and gas prices, expected production volumes and 
refining margins appropriate to the local circumstances and environment. 
These assumptions and the judgements of management that are based on 
them are subject to change as new information becomes available. Cash 
flow estimates are risk-adjusted to reflect local conditions as appropriate 
and discounted at a rate based on Shell’s marginal cost of debt. Changes 
in economic conditions can also affect the rate used to discount future 
cash flow estimates. Future price assumptions are presented in Note 8 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements (see pages 210-213). 
The original cost of the Company’s investment in Royal Dutch Petroleum 
Company (“Royal Dutch”) was based on the fair value of the shares 
transferred to the Company by the former shareholders of Royal Dutch in 
exchange for A shares in the Company during the public exchange offer 
in 2005. The original cost of the Company’s investment in The “Shell” 
Transport and Trading Company, plc, now The Shell Transport and Trading 
Company Limited (“Shell Transport”), was the fair value of the shares held 
by the former shareholders of The “Shell” Transport and Trading Company 
plc transferred in consideration for the issuance of B shares as part of the 
Scheme of Arrangement in 2005. The Company’s investments in Royal 
Dutch and Shell Transport now represent an investment in Shell Petroleum 
N.V. (“Shell Petroleum”); this change had no impact on the cost of 
investments in subsidiaries. On February 15, 2016 the Company acquired 
all the voting rights in BG Group plc via the issuance of shares and cash 
payments of total fair value $53,086 million. In September 2016, the 
Company’s shares in BG Group Limited (“BG”), formerly BG Group plc, 
were exchanged for an increased investment in Shell Petroleum.
DIVIDEND INCOME 
Dividends are recognised on a paid basis unless the dividend has been 
confirmed by a general meeting of Shell Petroleum, in which case income 
is recognised on the date at which receipt is deemed virtually certain. 
SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS 
The fair value of share-based compensation for equity-settled plans 
granted to employees of subsidiaries under the Company’s plans is 
recognised as an investment in subsidiaries from the date of grant 
over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity. 
In the year of vesting of a plan, the costs for the actual deliveries are 
charged to the relevant employing subsidiaries. This is recognised as a 
realisation of the investment originally booked. If the actual vesting costs 
are higher than the cumulatively recognised share-based compensation 
charge, the difference is recognised in income. 
Note 21 of the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 232-233) 
for information on the Company’s principal plan. 
TAXATION 
The Company is tax-resident in the Netherlands. For the assessment of 
corporate income tax in the Netherlands, the Company and certain of its 
subsidiaries form a fiscal unit, in respect of which the Company recognises 
any current tax receivable or payable (and deferred tax asset or liability) 
for the fiscal unit as a whole to the extent such balances have been settled 
between the Company and other members of the fiscal unit at the balance 
sheet date. Balances not settled with the Company at the balance sheet 
date are recognised in the member’s financial statements and, to the 
extent they are material, are disclosed in the notes to the Company’s 
financial statements. 
The Company’s tax charge or credit recognised in income is calculated 
at the statutory tax rate prevailing in the Netherlands for current tax 
and statutory tax rate substantively enacted in the Netherlands for 
deferred tax. 
Financial Statements

261
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
3 INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME/EXPENSE
$ million
2019 2018
Interest and other income:
Interest income 101 141
Total 101 141
Interest and other expenses:
Interest expense (111) (156)
Foreign exchange losses (35) (66)
Total (146) (222)
4 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
$ million
2019 2018
At January 1 256,920 256,882
Share-based compensation 506 512
Recovery of vested share-based compensation (772) (474)
At December 31 256,654 256,920
5 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES
$ million
Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Amounts due to subsidiaries (see Note 13) 750 – 3,934 –
Accruals and other liabilities 730 – 614 –
Withholding tax payable 291 – 311 –
Unclaimed dividends 4 – 3 –
Total 1,775 – 4,862 –
Accruals and other liabilities at December 31, 2019, and at December 31, 2018, principally comprise commitments for share repurchases undertaken on 
the Company’s behalf under irrevocable, non-discretionary arrangements. 
6 TAXATION
Taxation charge
$ million
2019 2018
Current tax:
Charge in respect of current period 9 –
Total 9 –
Deferred tax:
Relating to the origination and reversal of tax losses and credits 539 33
Relating to changes in tax rates and legislation 19 11
Total 558 44
Taxation charge 567 44
In 2019, the deferred tax charge related to derecognition of deferred tax assets on unused tax losses and tax credits carried forward.
Financial Statements

262
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
6 TAXATION continued
Reconciliation of applicable tax charge at statutory tax rate to taxation charge
$ million
2019 2018
Income before taxation 20,952 23,154
Applicable tax charge at the statutory tax rate of 25.0% (2018: 25.0%) 5,238 5,789
Derecognition of deferred tax assets 539 –
Tax effects of:
Income not subject to tax at statutory rates (5,253) (5,820)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 24 20
Other 19 55
Taxation charge 567 44
Taxes payable are reported within accounts payable and accrued liabilities (see Note 5). 
Deferred tax assets
$ million
2019 2018
At January 1 355 598
Recognised in income (558) (44)
Other movements 203 (199)
At December 31 – 355
In the Company’s capacity as head of the fiscal unity, no deferred tax assets have been recognised at December 31, 2019. Deferred tax assets 
recognised in this capacity at December 31, 2018 amounted to $355 million and were in respect of credits carried forward and unused tax losses. 
At December 31, 2019, unrecognised unused tax losses amounted to $1,683 million (2018: $nil) and unrecognised credits carried forward amounted 
to $273 million (2018: $99 million). Unused tax losses are available for relief against future taxable profits for up to a period of six to nine years, 
dependent upon the year in which the losses were incurred. Unused tax credits are available indefinitely.
7 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost in the Company’s Balance Sheet comprise amounts due from subsidiaries (see Note 13) and 
certain amounts reported within accounts payable and accrued liabilities (see Note 5). The fair value of financial assets and liabilities at December 31, 
2019, and 2018, approximates their carrying amount. 
Information on financial risk management is presented in Note 19 of the Consolidated Financial Statements (see pages 227-231). Foreign currency 
derivatives are used by the Company to manage foreign exchange risk, which arises when certain transactions are denominated in a currency that 
is not the Company’s functional currency. There were no derivative financial instruments held at December 31, 2019, or 2018.
8 SHARE CAPITAL
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of €0.07 each [A]
Number of shares Nominal value ($ million)
A B A B Total
At January 1, 2019 4,471,889,296 3,745,486,731 376 309 685
Repurchases of shares (320,101,779) (16,079,624) (27) (1) (28)
At December 31, 2019 4,151,787 ,517 3,729,407,107 349 308 657
At January 1, 2018 4,597 ,136,050 3,745,486,731 387 309 696
Repurchases of shares (125,246,754) – (11) – (11)
At December 31, 2018 4,471,889,296 3,745,486,731 376 309 685
[A] S hare capital at December 31, 2019, and 2018, also included 50,000 issued and fully paid sterling deferred shares of £1 each. 
Financial Statements

263
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) on May 21, 2019, 
the Board was authorised to allot ordinary shares in the Company, and to 
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into ordinary shares 
in the Company, up to an aggregate nominal amount of €190.3 million 
(representing 2,720 million ordinary shares of €0.07 each), and to list 
such shares or rights on any stock exchange. This authority expires at the 
earlier of the close of business on August 21, 2020, and the end of the 
AGM to be held in 2020, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by 
the Company in a general meeting. 
At the May 21, 2019 AGM, shareholders granted the Company the 
authority to repurchase up to 815 million ordinary shares (excluding any 
treasury shares), renewing the authority granted by the shareholders at 
previous AGMs. The authority will expire at the earlier of the close of 
business on August 21, 2020, and the end of the AGM of the Company to 
be held in 2020. Ordinary shares purchased by the Company pursuant to 
this authority will either be cancelled or held in treasury. Treasury shares 
are shares in the Company which are owned by the Company itself. The 
minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary 
share is €0.07 . The maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be 
paid for an ordinary share is the higher of: (i) an amount equal to 5% 
above the average market value for an ordinary share for the five business 
days immediately preceding the date of the purchase; and (ii) the higher 
of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current 
independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out. 
A and B shares repurchased in 2019 under the Company’s share buyback 
programme were all cancelled. 
B shares rank equally in all respects with A shares except for the dividend 
access mechanism described below. The Company, Shell Transport and 
BG, can procure the termination of the dividend access mechanism at any 
time. Upon such termination, B shares will form one class with A shares 
ranking equally in all respects and A and B shares will be known as 
ordinary shares without further distinction. 
The sterling deferred shares are redeemable only at the discretion of the 
Company for £1 each and carry no voting rights. There are no further 
rights to participate in profits or assets, including the right to receive 
dividends. Upon winding up or liquidation, the shares carry a right to 
repayment of paid-up nominal value, ranking ahead of A and B shares. 
For information on the number of shares in the Company held by Shell 
employee share ownership trusts and trust-like entities to meet delivery 
commitments under employee share plans, see Note 21 of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements (see pages 232-233). 
DIVIDEND ACCESS MECHANISM FOR B SHARES 
General 
Dividends paid on A shares have a Dutch source for tax purposes and are 
subject to Dutch withholding tax. 
It is the expectation and the intention, although there can be no certainty, 
that holders of B shares will receive dividends through the dividend access 
mechanism. Any dividends paid on the dividend access shares will have 
a UK source for UK and Dutch tax purposes. There will be no Dutch 
withholding tax on such dividends. From April 2016, there were changes 
to the taxation of dividends for individual shareholders resident in the UK. 
The dividend tax credit was abolished, and a tax-free dividend allowance 
introduced. 
Description of dividend access mechanism 
Shell Transport and BG have each issued a dividend access share to 
Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited as Trustee. Pursuant to a 
declaration of trust, the Trustee will hold any dividends paid in respect of 
the dividend access shares on trust for the holders of B shares and will 
arrange for prompt disbursement of such dividends to holders of B shares. 
Interest and other income earned on unclaimed dividends will be for the 
account of Shell Transport and BG and any dividends which are 
unclaimed after 12 years will revert to Shell Transport and BG once 
forfeited. Holders of B shares will not have any interest in either dividend 
access share and will not have any rights against Shell Transport and BG 
as issuers of the dividend access shares. The only assets held on trust for 
the benefit of the holders of B shares will be dividends paid to the Trustee 
in respect of the dividend access shares. 
The declaration and payment of dividends on the dividend access shares 
will require board action by Shell Transport and BG (as applicable) and 
will be subject to any applicable limitations in law or in the Shell Transport 
or BG (as appropriate) articles of association in effect. In no event will the 
aggregate amount of the dividend paid by Shell Transport and BG under 
the dividend access mechanism for a particular period exceed the 
aggregate of the dividend announced by the Board of the Company on B 
shares in respect of the same period (after giving effect to currency 
conversions). 
In particular, under their respective articles of association, Shell Transport 
and BG are each only able to pay a dividend on their respective dividend 
access shares which represents a proportional amount of the aggregate 
of any dividend announced by the Company on the B shares in respect of 
the relevant period, where such proportions are calculated by reference 
to, in the case of Shell Transport, the number of B shares in existence prior 
to completion of the Company’s acquisition of BG and, in the case of BG, 
the number of B shares issued as part of the acquisition, in each case as 
against the total number of B shares in issue immediately following 
completion of the acquisition of BG. 
Operation of the dividend access mechanism
If, in connection with the announcement of a dividend by the Company on 
B shares, the Board of Shell Transport and/or the Board of BG elects to 
declare and pay a dividend on their respective dividend access shares to 
the Trustee, the holders of B shares will be beneficially entitled to receive 
their share of those dividends pursuant to the declaration of trust (and 
arrangements will be made to ensure that the dividend is paid in the same 
currency in which they would have received a dividend from the 
Company). 
If any amount is paid by Shell Transport or BG by way of a dividend on 
the dividend access shares and paid by the Trustee to any holder of B 
shares, the dividend which the Company would otherwise pay on B 
shares will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to such 
holders of B shares by the Trustee. 
The Company will have a full and unconditional obligation, in the event 
that the Trustee does not pay an amount to holders of B shares on a cash 
dividend payment date (even if that amount has been paid to the Trustee), 
to pay immediately the dividend announced on B shares. The right of 
holders of B shares to receive distributions from the Trustee will be reduced 
by an amount equal to the amount of any payment actually made by the 
Company on account of any dividend on B shares. 
Financial Statements

264
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
9 OTHER RESERVES
$ million
Merger 
reserve
Share 
premium 
reserve
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Share 
plan 
reserve Total
At January 1, 2019 234,231 154 95 1,056 235,536
Repurchases of shares – – 28 – 28
Share-based compensation – – – (3) (3)
At December 31, 2019 234,231 154 123 1,053 235,561
At January 1, 2018 234,231 154 84 897 235,366
Repurchases of shares – – 11 – 11
Share-based compensation – – – 159 159
At December 31, 2018 234,231 154 95 1,056 235,536
The merger reserve was established as a consequence of the Company becoming the single parent company of Royal Dutch and Shell Transport and 
represented the difference between the cost of the investment in those companies and the nominal value of shares issued in exchange for those 
investments as required by the prevailing legislation at that time, section 131 of the Companies Act 1985. On February 15, 2016, the Company acquired 
all shares in BG Group plc by means of a Scheme of Arrangement under Part 26 of the Act, via the issuance of 218.7 million A shares and 1,305.1 million 
B shares and cash payments. This resulted in an increase in the merger reserve, representing the difference between the fair value and the nominal value 
of the shares issued by the Company. 
On January 6, 2006, loan notes were converted into 4,827 ,974 A shares. The difference between the carrying value of the loan notes and the nominal 
value of the new shares issued was credited to the share premium reserve. The capital redemption reserve was established in connection with 
repurchases of shares of the Company. The share plan reserve is in respect of equity-settled share-based compensation plans (see Note 21 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements) and movement in share-based compensation for the year is the net of the charge to equity and the release as a 
result of vested awards. 
10 DIVIDENDS
See Note 23 of the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 235). 
8 SHARE CAPITAL continued
If for any reason no dividend is paid on the dividend access shares, 
holders of B shares will only receive dividends from the Company directly. 
Any payment by the Company will be subject to Dutch withholding tax 
(unless an exemption is obtained under Dutch law or under the provisions 
of an applicable tax treaty). 
The Dutch tax treatment of dividends paid under the dividend access 
mechanism has been confirmed by the Dutch Revenue Service in an 
agreement (“vaststellingsovereenkomst”) with the Company and N.V. 
Koninklijke Nederlandsche Petroleum Maatschappij (Royal Dutch 
Petroleum Company) dated October 26, 2004, as supplemented and 
amended by an agreement between the same parties dated April 25, 
2005, and a final settlement agreement in connection with the acquisition 
of BG dated November 9, 2015. The agreements state, among other 
things, that dividend distributions on the dividend access shares by Shell 
Transport and/or BG will not be subject to Dutch withholding tax provided 
that the dividend access mechanism is structured and operated 
substantially as set out above. 
The Company may not extend the dividend access mechanism to any 
future issuances of B shares without prior consultation with the Dutch 
Revenue Service. 
Accordingly, the Company would not expect to issue additional B shares 
unless confirmation from the Dutch Revenue Service was obtained or the 
Company were to determine that the continued operation of the dividend 
access mechanism was unnecessary. Any further issue of B shares is 
subject to advance consultation with the Dutch Revenue Service. 
The dividend access mechanism may be suspended or terminated at any 
time by the Company’s Directors or the Directors of Shell Transport or BG, 
for any reason and without financial recompense. This might, for instance, 
occur in response to changes in relevant tax legislation. 
Financial Statements

265
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
11 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND OTHER CONTINGENCIES
See Note 25 of the Consolidated Financial Statements (see pages 235-237). 
12 DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
See Note 27 of the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 237) for the remuneration of Directors of the Company. In 2019, the Company 
recognised $25 million (2018: $24 million) in administrative expenses for the compensation of Directors and Senior Management. 
13 RELATED PARTIES
Information about the Company’s subsidiaries, and whether these are held directly or indirectly, and other related undertakings (all of which are held 
indirectly), at December 31, 2019, is set out in ‘Appendix 1: Significant Subsidiaries and Other Related Undertakings’. 
$ million
Amounts due from subsidiaries
Amounts due to subsidiaries 
(see Note 5)
2019 2018 2019 2018
Shell Petroleum – – 748 550
Shell Treasury Centre Limited 1,862 9,260 – –
Shell Corporate Services Switzerland AG – – – 3,384
Other 2 3 2 –
Total 1,864 9,263 750 3,934
The Company received interest income from Shell Petroleum in 2019 of $60 million (2018: $134 million). Interest was calculated at US LIBOR less 
0.21% (December 31, 2018: US LIBOR less 0.21%). At both December 31, 2019 and 2018 the closing amount due from Shell Petroleum was $nil.
The amount due from Shell Treasury Centre Limited (“STCL”) comprises call deposits in dollars, sterling and euros. Interest is calculated at US LIBOR less 
0.21% (2018: US LIBOR less 0.21%) on dollar balances, at GBP LIBOR less 0.19% (2018: GBP LIBOR less 0.19%) on sterling balances and at Euro 
Overnight Index Average (“EONIA”) (2018: EONIA) on euro balances, unless this results in a negative interest rate in which case no interest is earned. 
Net interest income in 2019 from STCL was $41 million (2018: $7 million). 
In 2019, the Company settled an interest-bearing receivable and an interest-bearing payable at fair value, equal to the carrying amount of the balances 
at transfer date, with Shell Corporate Services Switzerland AG (“SCSS”). The net amount due to SCSS at December 31, 2019, is $nil (2018: interest-
bearing receivable of €4,690 million and an interest-bearing payable of $8,746 million). Interest on euro balances was calculated at EONIA (2018: 
EONIA) unless this resulted in a negative interest rate in which case no interest was earned. Interest on dollar balances was calculated at US LIBOR 
(2018: US LIBOR). Net interest expense on these balances in 2019 was $111 million (2018: $67 million). 
OTHER TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES 
The Company periodically enters into forward and spot foreign currency contracts with Treasury companies, which are subsidiaries. There were no open 
foreign currency contracts at December 31, 2019, or 2018. 
The Company settles general and administrative expenses of the Trust, including the auditor’s remuneration. 
The Company has guaranteed contractual payments totalling $52,974 million at December 31, 2019 (2018: $53,357 million), and related interest, 
in respect of listed debt issued by Shell International Finance B.V.
14 AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
See Note 28 of the Consolidated Financial Statements (see pages 238). 
Financial Statements

266
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO COMPUTERSHARE TRUSTEES (JERSEY) 
LIMITED AS TRUSTEE OF THE ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST 
AND THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC
TO COMPUTERSHARE TRUSTEES (JERSEY) LIMITED 
AS TRUSTEE OF THE ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND 
ACCESS TRUST AND THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND 
SHAREHOLDERS OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the non-statutory financial statements of the Royal 
Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust (the Financial Statements) for the year 
ended December 31, 2019 which comprise the Statement of Income, the 
Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Balance Sheet, the Statement 
of Changes in Equity, the Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 
1 to 8. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
adopted by the European Union (EU) and IFRS as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 
In our opinion the Financial Statements: 
 ■ give a true and fair view of the Royal Dutch Shell Divided Access 
Trust’s (the Trust) affairs as at December 31, 2019 and of its income 
for the year then ended; and 
 ■ have been properly prepared both in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB. 
Basis for opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for 
the audit of the financial statements” section of our report below. We are 
independent of the Trust in accordance with the ethical requirements that 
are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including 
the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Conclusions relating to going concern
We have nothing material to report in respect of the following matters in 
relation to which the ISAs (UK) require us to report to you where: 
 ■ the Trustee of Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust’s (the Trustee) 
use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 
Financial Statements is not appropriate; or 
 ■ the Trustee has not disclosed in the Financial Statements any identified 
material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt about the Trust’s 
ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting 
for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of 
the Financial Statements. 
Other information 
The other information comprises the information included in the annual 
report, other than the Financial Statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. The Board of Directors of Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Directors) 
are responsible for the other information. 
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other 
information and, we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility 
is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements 
or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or 
apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether 
there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material 
misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have 
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the 
other information, we are required to report that fact. 
We have nothing to report in this regard. 
Responsibilities of the Trustee
The Trustee is responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such 
internal control as the Trustee determines is necessary to enable the 
preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Trustee is responsible for 
assessing the Trust’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the Trustee either intends to liquidate the Trust 
or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. The 
Trustee is also required to: present fairly the financial position, financial 
performance and cash flows of the Trust; select suitable accounting 
policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently; present 
information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides 
relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; make 
judgements that are reasonable; provide additional disclosures when 
compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS as adopted by the EU 
and as issued by the IASB is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 
Trust’s financial position and financial performance; and state whether 
the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 
as adopted by the EU and as issued by the IASB. 
Financial Statements

267
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the 
financial statements 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes 
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not 
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will 
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can 
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements. 
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial 
Statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
https:/ /www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms 
part of our auditor’s report. 
Use of our report
This report is made solely to the Trustee and the Directors as a body, 
in accordance with our engagement letter. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the Trustee and the Directors those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no 
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Trust and the Trustee and 
the Directors as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the 
opinions we have formed. 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
London 
March 11, 2019
[A] T he maintenance and integrity of the Shell website are the responsibility of the Directors of 
Royal Dutch Shell plc; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of 
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that 
may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the 
website. 
[B]
 L
egislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Financial Statements

268
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
269 Sta tement of Income
269 S
tatement of Comprehensive Income
269 B
alance Sheet
270 Sta
tement of Changes in Equity
270 Sta
tement of Cash Flows
271 N
otes to the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements
271 N
ote 1 The Trust
271 N
ote 2 Basis of preparation
271 N
ote 3 Significant accounting policies
271 N
ote 4 Unclaimed dividends 
271 N
ote 5 Capital account
271 N
ote 6 Distributions made
271 N
ote 7 Related parties
271 N
ote 8 Auditor’s remuneration
ROYAL DUTCH SHELL 
DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial Statements

269
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
STATEMENT OF INCOME
£ million
2019 2018 2017
Dividend income 5,484 5,328 4,567
Income before taxation and for the period 5,484 5,328 4,567
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
£ million
2019 2018 2017
Income for the period 5,484 5,328 4,567
Comprehensive income for the period 5,484 5,328 4,567
BALANCE SHEET
£ million
Notes Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Assets
Current assets – –
Cash and cash equivalents 3 3
Total assets 3 3
Liabilities
Current liabilities – –
Unclaimed dividends 4 3 3
Total liabilities 3 3
Equity
Capital account 5 – –
Revenue account – –
Total equity – –
Total liabilities and equity 3 3
Signed on behalf of Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited 
as Trustee of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust
/s/ Karen Kurys /s/ Martin Fish
KAREN KURYS
March 11, 2020
MARTIN FISH
Financial Statements

270
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
£ million
Notes
Capital 
account
Revenue 
account
Total 
equity
At January 1, 2019 – – –
Comprehensive income for the period – 5,484 5,484
Distributions made 6 – (5,484) (5,484)
At December 31, 2019 – – –
At January 1, 2018 – – –
Comprehensive income for the period – 5,328 5,328
Distributions made 6 – (5,328) (5,328)
At December 31, 2018 – – –
At January 1, 2017 – – –
Comprehensive income for the period – 4,567 4,567
Distributions made 6 – (4,567) (4,567)
At December 31, 2017 – – –
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
£ million
2019 2018 2017
Income for the period 5,484 5,328 4,567
Adjustment for:
Dividends received (5,484) (5,328) (4,567)
Cash flow from operating activities – – –
Dividends received 5,484 5,328 4,567
Cash flow from investing activities 5,484 5,328 4,567
Cash distributions made (5,484) (5,327) (4,567)
Cash flow from financing activities (5,484) (5,327) (4,567)
Change in cash and cash equivalents – 1 –
Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 3 2 2
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 3 3 2
Financial Statements

271
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
NOTES TO THE ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 THE TRUST
The Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust (the “Trust”) was established 
on May 19, 2005, by The “Shell” Transport and Trading Company plc, 
now The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited (“Shell Transport”), 
and Royal Dutch Shell plc (the “Company”). The Trust is governed by the 
applicable laws of England and Wales and is resident and domiciled in 
Jersey. The Trust is not subject to taxation. The Trustee of the Trust is 
Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited, registration number 92182 (the 
“Trustee”), Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 1ES. 
The Trust was established as part of a dividend access mechanism. 
Shell Transport and BG Group Limited (“BG”), have each issued a 
dividend access share to the Trustee. Following the announcement of a 
dividend by the Company on the B shares, Shell Transport and BG may 
declare a dividend on their dividend access shares. 
The primary purposes of the Trust are to receive, on behalf of the B 
shareholders of the Company and in accordance with their respective 
holdings of B shares in the Company, any amounts paid by way of 
dividend on the dividend access shares and to pay such amounts to 
the B shareholders on the same pro rata basis. The Trust is not subject 
to significant market risk, credit risk or liquidity risk. 
The Trust shall not endure for a period in excess of 80 years from May 19, 
2005, being the date on which the Trust Deed was executed. 
2 THE BASIS OF PREPARATION
The Financial Statements of the Trust have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted 
by the European Union. As applied to the Trust, there are no material 
differences from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (“IASB”); therefore, the Financial Statements have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. 
The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost 
convention. The accounting policies described in Note 3 have been 
applied consistently in all periods presented. 
The Financial Statements were approved and authorised for issue by 
the Trustee on March 11, 2020. 
The financial results of the Trust are included in the Consolidated and 
Parent Company Financial Statements on pages 190-238 and pages 
257-265 respectively. 
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Trust’s accounting policies follow those of Shell as set out in Note 2A 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements (see pages 195-203). The 
following are Trust-specific policies. 
Presentation and functional currency 
The Trust’s presentation and functional currency is sterling. The Trust’s 
dividend income and dividends paid are principally in sterling. 
Dividend income 
Dividends on the dividend access shares are recognised on a paid basis 
unless the dividend has been confirmed by a general meeting of Shell 
Transport or BG, in which case income is recognised on the date on 
which receipt is deemed virtually certain. 
Distributions made 
Amounts are recorded as distributed once a wire transfer or cheque is 
issued. To the extent that cheques expire or are returned unpresented, 
the Trust records a liability for unclaimed dividends and a corresponding 
amount of cash. 
4 UNCLAIMED DIVIDENDS
Unclaimed dividends of £3,456,974 (2018: £2,816,655) include any 
dividend cheque payments that have not been presented within 12 
months, have expired or have been returned unpresented. Dividends 
which are unclaimed after 12 years will revert to Shell Transport and 
BG once forfeited. 
5 CAPITAL ACCOUNT
The capital account is represented by the dividend access share of 25 
pence settled in the Trust by Shell Transport and the dividend access 
share of 10 pence settled in the Trust by BG. There have been no 
changes in the capital account in the current or prior year. 
6 DISTRIBUTIONS MADE
Distributions are made to the B shareholders of the Company in 
accordance with the Trust Deed. See Note 23 of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements (see pages 235) for information about dividends per 
share. Any wire transfers that are not completed are replaced by cheques. 
7 RELATED PARTIES
The Trust received dividend income of £3,573 million (2018: £3,470 
million; 2017: £2,970 million) in respect of the dividend access share 
from Shell Transport and £1,911 million (2018: £1,858 million; 2017: 
£1,597 million) in respect of the dividend access share from BG. 
The Trust made distributions of £5,484 million (2018: £5,328 million; 
2017: £4,567 million) to the B shareholders of the Company. 
The Company pays the general and administrative expenses of the 
Trust, including the auditor’s remuneration. 
8 AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
Auditor’s remuneration for 2019 audit services was £33,750 
(2018: £33,750; 2017: £33,750). 
Financial Statements

272
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
274 S hareholder information
279 N
on-GAAP measures reconciliations
282 
 A
ppendix 1: Significant Subsidiaries and 
Other Related Undertakings (Audited)
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
Additional Information

273
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Additional Information

274
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Company) was incorporated in England and 
Wales on February 5, 2002, as a private company under the Companies 
Act 1985, as amended. On October 27 , 2004, the Company was 
re-registered as a public company limited by shares and changed its name 
from Forthdeal Limited to Royal Dutch Shell plc. The Company is registered 
at Companies House, Cardiff, under company number 4366849, and 
at the Chamber of Commerce, The Hague, under company number 
34179503. The Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) issued by the London Stock 
Exchange is 21380068P1DRHMJ8KU70. The business address for the 
Directors and Senior Management is Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, 2596 
HR, The Hague, The Netherlands. 
The Company is resident in the Netherlands for Dutch and UK tax 
purposes and its primary objective is to carry on the business of a 
holding company. It is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by 
another corporation or by any government and does not know of any 
arrangements that may result in a change of control of the Company. 
NATURE OF TRADING MARKET 
The Company has two classes of ordinary shares: A and B shares. The 
principal trading market for A shares is Euronext Amsterdam and the 
principal trading market for B shares is the London Stock Exchange. 
Ordinary shares are traded in registered form. 
A and B American Depositary Shares (ADSs) are listed on the New York 
Stock Exchange [A]. A depositary receipt is a certificate that evidences 
ADSs. Depositary receipts are issued, cancelled and exchanged at the 
office of JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., 383 Madison Avenue, New York, 
New York 10179, USA, as depositary (the Depositary), under a deposit 
agreement between the Company, the Depositary and the holders of 
ADSs. Each ADS represents two €0.07 shares of Royal Dutch Shell plc 
deposited under the agreement. More information relating to ADSs is 
given on pages 274-278.
[A] A t February 14, 2020, 395,595,127 A ADSs and 322,677 ,233 B ADSs were outstanding, 
representing 5.04% and 4.11% of the respective share capital class, held by 5,003 and 912 
holders of record with an address in the USA, respectively. In addition to holders of ADSs, at 
February 14, 2020, 21,380 A shares and 920,170 B shares of €0.07 each were outstanding, 
representing 0.0003% and 0.0117% of the respective share capital class, held by 299 and 
3,061 holders of record registered with an address in the USA, respectively. 
Listing information
 A shares B shares
Ticker symbol London RDSA RDSB
Ticker symbol Amsterdam RDSA RDSB
Ticker symbol New York (ADS [A]) RDS.A RDS.B
ISIN Code GB00B03MLX29 GB00B03MM408
CUSIP G7690A100 G7690A118
SEDOL Number London B03MLX2 B03MM40
SEDOL Number Euronext B09CBL4 B09CBN6
Weighting on FTSE at 31/12/19 4.97% 4.44%
Weighting on AEX at 31/12/19 11.9% not included
[A] E ach A ADS represents two A shares of €0.07 each and each B ADS represents two B 
shares of €0.07 each.
SHARE CAPITAL 
The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company at February 14, 
2020, was as follows: 
Share capital
 
 
Issued and fully paid
Number Nominal value
Ordinary shares of €0.07 each  
A shares 4,125,109,180 €  2 8 8 , 75 7, 6 4 3
B shares 3 , 7 2 7, 2 67, 21 5€ 260,908,705
Sterling deferred shares of £1 each 50,000 £50,000
The Directors may only allot new ordinary shares if they have authority 
from shareholders to do so. The Company seeks to renew this authority 
annually at its AGM. Under the resolution passed at the Company’s 2019 
AGM, the Directors were granted authority to allot ordinary shares up to 
an aggregate nominal amount equivalent to approximately one-third of 
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company (in line with the 
guidelines issued by institutional investors). 
The following is a summary of the material terms of the Company’s 
ordinary shares, including brief descriptions of the provisions contained in 
the Articles of Association (the Articles) and applicable laws of England 
and Wales in effect on the date of this document. This summary does 
not purport to include complete statements of these provisions: 
 ■ upon issuance, A and B shares are fully paid and free from all liens, 
equities, charges, encumbrances and other interest of the Company 
and not subject to calls of any kind; 
 ■ all A and B shares rank equally for all dividends and distributions 
on ordinary share capital; and 
 ■ A and B shares are admitted to the Official List of the UK Financial 
Conduct Authority and to trading on the market for listed securities 
of the London Stock Exchange. A and B shares are also admitted 
to trading on Euronext Amsterdam. A and B ADSs are listed on the 
New York Stock Exchange. 
At December 31, 2019, trusts and trust-like entities holding shares for the 
benefit of employee share plans of Shell held (directly and indirectly) 
35 million shares of the Company with an aggregate market value of 
$1,021 million and an aggregate nominal value of €3 million.
SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS 
The Company’s A and B shares have identical voting rights, and 
accordingly the Company’s major shareholders do not have 
different voting rights. 
Additional Information

275
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Significant direct shareholdings 
Direct holdings of 3% or more of A and B shares combined held by registered members representing the interests of underlying investors at 
February 14, 2020 are given below. 
 
A shares B shares Total
Number % Number % Number %
Nederlands Centraal Instituut Voor Giraal Effectenverkeer Bv 1,648,160,815.00 39.95 15,631,116.00 0.42 1,663,791,931.00 21.19
Guaranty Nominees Limited 780,888,066.00 18.93 635,107 ,032.00 17. 0 4 1,415,995,098.00 18.03
State Street Nominees Limited 153,192,955.00 3.71 176,114,622.00 4.73 329,307 ,577 .00 4.19
Chase Nominees Limited 39,792,354.00 0.96 223,049,935.00 5.98 262,842,289.00 3.35
Significant indirect shareholdings 
Interests of investors with 3% or more of A and B shares combined at February 14, 2020 are given below. 
 
 
A shares B shares Total
Number % Number % Number %
The Capital Group [A] 42,482,002 0.54  349,161,475 4.45 391,643,477 4.99
The Vanguard Group 197 ,154,328 4.75  141,041,343 3.78 338,195,671 4.29
BlackRock Inc 3 0 4 , 0 37,9 3 8 7. 3 2 259,041,285 6.95 563,079,223 7.1 4
[A] I nformation presented as at February 24, 2020.
Notification of major shareholdings
The Company received two notifications pursuant to Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule (DTR) 5 during the year and up to February 14, 2020, 
(being a date not more than one month prior to the date of the Company’s Notice of Annual General Meeting). The information provided includes the 
percentage of issued capital as at the date of the notifications.
Investor
 
 
A shares B shares Total [A]
Number % Number % Number %
The Capital Group Companies, Inc.[B] 64,854,057 0.80 3 37, 5 94 , 4 8 2 4.19 402,448,539 4.99
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. [C] [D] 51,230,530 0.65 342,234,201 4.35 393,464,731 5.00
[A] E xcludes financial instruments according to Art. 13(1)(a) of Directive 2004/109/EC (DTR 5.3.1.1 (a)) and financial instruments with similar economic effect according to Art. 13(1)(b) of Directive 
2004/109/EC (DTR 5.3.1.1 (b)).
[B]
 T
he notification was announced on 9 July 2019.
[C]
 T
he notification was announced on 20 January 2020.
[D]
 O
n 24 February 2020, Royal Dutch Shell plc announced receipt of a notification from The Capital Group Companies Inc. disclosing a holding of 31,948,156 A shares and 10,533,846 
A ADR shares (0.54%) and 166,464,737 B shares and 182,696,738 B ADR shares (4.45%) being a total of 391,643,477 shares held (4.99%). 
DIVIDENDS
The following tables show the dividends on each class of share and each class of ADS for the years 2015–2019. 
A and B shares
  $
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Q1 0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47
Q2 0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47
Q3 0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47
Q4 0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47
Total announced in respect of the year 1.88  1.88  1.88  1.88  1.88
Additional Information

276
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued
A shares
  € [A]
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Q1 0.42 0.40 0.42 0.42 0.42
Q2 0.43 0.40 0.39 0.42 0.42
Q3 0.42 0.41 0.40 0.44 0.43
Q4 0.42 0.42 0.38 0.44 0.42
Total announced in respect of the year 1.68 1.64 1.59 1.72 1.69
Amount paid during the year 1.68 1.60 1.65 1.70 1.71
[A] Euro equivalent, rounded to the nearest euro cent. 
B shares
  Pence [A]
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Q1 36.97 35.18 37.12 32.98 30.75
Q2 38.01 36.50 36.28 35.27 30.92
Q3 35.73 36.77 35.02 37.16 31.07
Q4 36.40 35.94 33.91 38.64 32.78
Total announced in respect of the year 1 47.11 144.39 142.33 144.05 125.52
Amount paid during the year 146.65 142.36 1 47. 0 6 138.19 123.94
[A] Sterling equivalent. 
A and B ADSs
  $
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Q1 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94
Q2 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94
Q3 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94
Q4 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94
Total announced in respect of the year 3.76 3.76 3.76 3.76 3.76
Amount paid during the year 3.76 3.76 3.76 3.76 3.76
METHOD OF HOLDING SHARES OR AN INTEREST IN SHARES
There are several ways in which Royal Dutch Shell plc registered shares 
or an interest in these shares can be held, including: 
 ■ directly as registered shares either in uncertificated form or in 
certificated form in a shareholder’s own name; 
 ■ indirectly through Euroclear Nederland (in respect of which the Dutch 
Securities Giro Act (“Wet giraal effectenverkeer”) is applicable); 
 ■ through the Royal Dutch Shell Corporate Nominee Service; 
 ■ through another third-party nominee or intermediary company; and
 ■ as a direct or indirect holder of either an A or a B ADS with the Depositary.
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY SHARES
The Depositary is the registered shareholder of the shares underlying the 
A or B ADSs and enjoys the rights of a shareholder under the Articles. 
Holders of ADSs will not have shareholder rights. The rights of the holder 
of an A or a B ADS are specified in the Deposit Agreement with the 
Depositary and are summarised below.
The Depositary will receive all cash dividends and other cash distributions 
made on the deposited shares underlying the ADSs and, where possible 
and on a reasonable basis, will distribute such dividends and distributions 
to holders of ADSs. Rights to purchase additional shares will also be made 
available to the Depositary who may make such rights available to 
holders of ADSs. All other distributions made on the Company’s shares 
will be distributed by the Depositary in any means that the Depositary 
thinks is equitable and practical. The Depositary may deduct its fees 
and expenses and the amount of any taxes owed from any payments 
to holders and it may sell a holder’s deposited shares to pay any taxes 
owed. The Depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful 
or impractical to make a distribution available to holders of ADSs. 
The Depositary will notify holders of ADSs of shareholders’ meetings of 
the Company and will arrange to deliver voting materials to such holders 
of ADSs if requested by the Company. Upon request by a holder, the 
Depositary will endeavour to appoint such holder as proxy in respect of 
such holder’s deposited shares entitling such holder to attend and vote at 
shareholders’ meetings. Holders of ADSs may also instruct the Depositary 
to vote their deposited securities and the Depositary will try, as far as 
practical and lawful, to vote deposited shares in accordance with such 
instructions. The Company cannot ensure that holders will receive voting 
materials or otherwise learn of an upcoming shareholders’ meeting in time 
to ensure that holders can instruct the Depositary to vote their shares. 
Upon payment of appropriate fees, expenses and taxes: (i) shareholders 
may deposit their shares with the Depositary and receive the 
corresponding class and amount of ADSs; and (ii) holders of ADSs may 
surrender their ADSs to the Depositary and have the corresponding class 
and amount of shares credited to their account. 
Additional Information

277
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
In addition to the above, the Depositary may charge: (i) a dividend fee of 
$5.00 or less per 100 ADSs (or portion of 100 ADSs) for cash dividends or 
issuance of ADSs resulting from share dividends and (ii) an administrative 
fee of $5.00 or less per 100 ADSs (or portion of 100 ADSs) per calendar 
year. The Company and Depositary have agreed not to charge these fees 
at this time.
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN
Equiniti Financial Services Limited, part of the same group of companies as 
the Company’s Registrar, Equiniti Limited, operates a Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”) which enables RDS shareholders to elect to 
have their dividend payments used to purchase RDS shares of the same 
class as those already held by them. More information can be found at 
www.shareview.co.uk/info/drip or by contacting Equiniti.
ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. also operate 
dividend reinvestment options. More information can be found by 
contacting the relevant provider. 
EXCHANGE CONTROLS AND OTHER LIMITATIONS 
AFFECTING SECURITY HOLDERS 
Other than restrictions affecting those individuals, entities, government 
bodies, corporations or agencies that are subject to European Union (EU) 
sanctions for example, regarding Syria, and those sanctions adopted by 
the government of the UK, and the general EU prohibition to transfer 
funds to and from for example, North Korea, we are not aware of any 
other legislative or other legal provision currently in force in the UK, 
the Netherlands or arising under the Articles restricting remittances 
to holders of the Company’s ordinary shares who are non-residents 
of the UK, or affecting the import or export of capital. 
TAXATION 
General 
The Company is incorporated in England and Wales and tax-resident 
in the Netherlands. As a tax resident of the Netherlands, it is generally 
required by Dutch law to withhold tax at a rate of 15% on dividends on its 
ordinary shares and ADSs, subject to the provisions of any applicable tax 
convention or domestic law. Depending on their particular circumstances, 
non-Dutch tax-resident holders may be entitled to a full or partial refund 
of Dutch withholding tax. The following sets forth the operation of other 
provisions on dividends on the Company’s various ordinary shares and 
ADSs to UK and US holders, as well as certain other tax rules pertinent to 
holders. Holders should consult their own tax adviser if they are uncertain 
as to the tax treatment of any dividend. 
Dividends paid on the dividend access shares 
There is no Dutch withholding tax on dividends on B shares or B ADSs, 
provided that such dividends are paid on the dividend access shares 
pursuant to the dividend access mechanism (see “Dividend access 
mechanism for B shares” on page 278). Dividends paid on the dividend 
access shares are treated as UK-source for tax purposes and there is no 
UK withholding tax on them. 
Further, subject to certain limitations, holders may, at any time, cancel 
ADSs and withdraw their underlying shares or have the corresponding 
class and amount of shares credited to their account. 
FEES PAID BY HOLDERS OF ADSs 
The Depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs directly 
from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of 
withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them. The Depositary collects 
fees for making distributions to investors by deducting those fees from the 
amounts distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property to pay 
the fees. The Depositary may generally refuse to provide fee-attracting 
services until its fees for those services are paid. See page 278. 
PAYMENTS BY DEPOSITARY TO THE COMPANY 
J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Depositary, has agreed to share with 
the Company portions of certain fees collected, less ADS programme 
expenses paid by the Depositary. For example, these expenses include the 
Depositary’s annual programme fees, transfer agency fees, custody fees, 
legal expenses, postage and envelopes for mailing annual and interim 
financial reports, printing and distributing dividend cheques, electronic 
filing of US federal tax information, mailing required tax forms, stationery, 
postage, facsimile and telephone calls and the standard out-of-pocket 
maintenance costs for the ADSs. From January 1, 2019, to February 14, 
2020, the Company received $1,320,599 from the Depositary. 
Persons depositing or withdrawing shares must pay: For:
$5.00 or less per 100 ADSs (or portion of 100 ADSs)  ■ Issuance of ADSs, including those resulting from a distribution of shares, rights or 
other property;
 ■ Cancellation of ADSs for the purpose of their withdrawal, including if the deposit 
agreement terminates; and
 ■ Distribution of securities to holders of deposited securities by the Depositary to 
ADS registered holders.
Registration and transfer fees
 ■ Registration and transfer of shares on the share register to or from the name of the 
Depositary or its agent when they deposit or withdraw shares.
Expenses of the Depositary
 ■ Cable, telex and facsimile transmissions (when expressly provided in the deposit 
agreement); and
 ■ Converting foreign currency into dollars.
Taxes and other governmental charges the Depositary or the custodian has to 
pay on any ADS or share underlying an ADS, for example, share transfer taxes, 
stamp duty or withholding taxes
 ■ As necessary.
Additional Information

278
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
In 2019, all dividends with respect to B shares and B ADSs were paid on 
the dividend access shares pursuant to the dividend access mechanism. 
Dutch withholding tax 
When Dutch withholding tax applies on dividends paid to a US holder 
(that is, dividends on A shares or A ADSs, or on B shares or B ADSs that 
are not paid on the dividend access shares pursuant to the dividend 
access mechanism), the US holder will be subject to Dutch withholding tax 
at the rate of 15%. A US holder who is entitled to the benefits of the 1992 
Double Taxation Convention (the Convention) between the USA and the 
Netherlands as amended by the protocol signed on March 8, 2004, will 
be entitled to a reduction in the Dutch withholding tax, either by way of a 
full or a partial exemption at source or by way of a partial refund or a 
credit as follows: 
 ■ if the US holder is an exempt pension trust as described in article 35 of 
the Convention, or an exempt organisation as described in article 36 
thereof, the US holder will be exempt from Dutch withholding tax; or 
 ■ if the US holder is a company that holds directly at least 10% of the 
voting power in the Company, the US holder will be subject to Dutch 
withholding tax at a rate not exceeding 5%. 
In general, the entire dividend (including any amount withheld) will be 
dividend income to the US holder and the withholding tax will be treated 
as a foreign income tax that is eligible for credit against the US holder’s 
income tax liability or a deduction subject to certain limitations. A “US 
holder” includes, but is not limited to, a citizen or resident of the USA, or a 
corporation or other entity organised under the laws of the USA or any of 
its political subdivisions. 
When Dutch withholding tax applies on dividends paid to UK tax-resident 
holders (that is, dividends on A shares or A ADSs, or on B shares or B ADSs 
that are not paid on the dividend access shares pursuant to the dividend 
access mechanism), the dividend will typically be subject to withholding 
tax at a rate of 15%. Such UK tax-resident holder may be entitled to a 
credit (not repayable) for withholding tax against their UK tax liability. 
However, certain corporate shareholders are, subject to conditions, exempt 
from UK tax on dividends. Withholding tax suffered cannot be offset 
against such exempt dividends. UK tax-resident holders should also be 
entitled to claim a refund of one-third of the Dutch withholding tax from the 
Dutch tax authorities in reliance on the tax convention between the 
Netherlands and the UK. Pension plans meeting certain defined criteria 
can, however, be entitled to claim a full refund or exemption at source of 
the dividend tax withheld. Also, UK tax-resident corporate shareholders 
holding at least a 5% shareholding and meeting other defined criteria are 
exempted at source from dividend tax. 
For holders who are tax-resident in any other country, the availability of a 
whole or partial exemption or refund of Dutch withholding tax is governed 
by Dutch tax law and/or the tax convention, if any, between the 
Netherlands and the country of the holder’s residence. 
There may be other grounds on which holders who are tax-resident in the 
UK, the USA or any other country can obtain a full or partial refund of the 
Dutch withholding tax, depending on their particular circumstances; see 
“Taxation: General” above. 
Dutch capital gains taxation 
Capital gains on the sale of shares of a Dutch tax-resident company by a 
US holder are generally not subject to taxation by the Netherlands unless 
the US holder has a permanent establishment therein and the capital gain 
is derived from the sale of shares that are part of the business property of 
the permanent establishment. 
Dutch succession duty and gift taxes 
Shares of a Dutch tax-resident company held by an individual who is not a 
resident or a deemed resident of the Netherlands will generally not be 
subject to succession duty in the Netherlands on the individual’s death. 
A gift of shares of a Dutch tax-resident company by an individual who is 
not a resident or a deemed resident of the Netherlands is generally not 
subject to Dutch gift tax. 
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax 
Sales or transfers of the Company’s ordinary shares within a clearance 
service (such as Euroclear Nederland) or of the Company’s ADSs within 
the ADS depositary receipts system will not give rise to a stamp duty 
reserve tax (“SDRT”) liability and should not in practice require the 
payment of UK stamp duty. 
The transfer of the Company’s ordinary shares to a clearance service (such 
as Euroclear Nederland) or to an issuer of depositary shares (such as 
ADSs) will generally give rise to a UK stamp duty or SDRT liability at the 
rate of 1.5% of consideration given or, if none, of the value of the shares. A 
sale of the Company’s ordinary shares that are not held within a clearance 
service (for example, settled through the UK’s CREST system of paperless 
transfers) will generally be subject to UK stamp duty or SDRT at the rate of 
0.5% of the amount of the consideration, normally paid by the purchaser. 
CAPITAL GAINS TAX 
For the purposes of UK capital gains tax, the market values [A] of the shares of the former public parent companies of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group at 
the relevant dates were: 
 £ 
 March 31, 1982 July 20, 2005
Royal Dutch Petroleum Company (N.V. Koninklijke Nederlandsche Petroleum Maatschappij) which ceased to exist on December 21, 2005 1.1349 17. 6 62 5
The “Shell” Transport and Trading Company, p.l.c. which delisted on July 19, 2005 1.4502 Not applicable
[A] Restated where applicable to reflect all capitalisation issues since the relevant date. This includes the change in the capital structure in 2005, when Royal Dutch Shell plc became the single parent 
company of Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and of The “Shell” Transport and Trading Company, p.l.c., now The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited, and one share in Royal Dutch 
Petroleum Company was exchanged for two Royal Dutch Shell plc A shares and one share in The “Shell” Transport and Trading Company, p.l.c. was exchanged for 0.287333066 Royal Dutch 
Shell plc B shares.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued
Additional Information

279
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
NON-GAAP MEASURES RECONCILIATIONS
These non-GAAP measures, also known as alternative performance 
measures, are financial measures other than those defined in International 
Financial Reporting Standards, which Shell considers provide useful 
information. 
EARNINGS ON A CURRENT COST OF SUPPLIES BASIS
Segment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis (CCS 
earnings), which is the earnings measure used by the Chief Executive 
Officer for the purposes of making decisions about allocating resources 
and assessing performance. On this basis, the purchase price of volumes 
sold during the period is based on the current cost of supplies during the 
same period after making allowance for the tax effect. CCS earnings 
therefore exclude the effect of changes in the oil price on inventory 
carrying amounts. The current cost of supplies adjustment does not 
impact Cash flow from operating activities in the “Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows”.
Reconciliation of CCS earnings to income for the period
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Earnings on a current cost of supplies basis 
(CCS earnings) 15,827 24,364 12,471
Attributable to non-controlling interest (557) (531) (390)
Earnings on a current cost of supplies basis 
attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 15,270 23,833 12,081
Current cost of supplies adjustment 605 (458) 964
Non-controlling interest (33) (23) (68)
Income attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc 
shareholders 15,842 23,352 12,977
Non-controlling interest 590 554 458
Income for the period 16,432 23,906 13,435
CASH CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND CAPITAL INVESTMENT 
Capital investment is a measure used to make decisions about allocating 
resources and assessing performance. It comprises Capital expenditure, 
Investments in joint ventures and associates and Investments in equity 
securities, exploration expense excluding well write-offs, leases 
recognised in the period and other adjustments.
The definition reflects two changes with effect from January 1, 2019, for 
simplicity reasons. Firstly, “Investments in equity securities” now includes 
investments under the Corporate segment and is aligned with the line 
introduced in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows from January 1, 
2019. Secondly, the adjustments previously made to bring the Capital 
investment measure onto an accruals basis no longer apply. 
Comparative information has been revised.
Cash capital expenditure is introduced with effect from January 1, 2019, 
to monitor investing activities on a cash basis, excluding items such as 
lease additions which do not necessarily result in cash outflows in the 
period. The measure comprises the following lines from the Consolidated 
Statement of Cash flows: Capital expenditure, Investments in joint ventures 
and associates and Investments in equity securities. Information for prior 
periods are stated to enable comparison.
The reconciliation of “Capital expenditure” to “Cash capital expenditure” 
and “Capital investment” is as follows.
Cash capital expenditure and Capital investment reconciliation
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Capital expenditure [A] 22,971 23,011 20,845
Investments in joint ventures and associates [A] 743 880 595
Investments in equity securities [A] 205 187 93
Cash capital expenditure 23,919 24,078 21,533
Of which:
Integrated Gas 4,299 3,819 3,616
Upstream 10,277 12,582 11,670
Downstream 8,926 7, 4 0 8 6,090
Corporate 418 269 157
Exploration expense, excluding exploration 
wells written off 1,137 889 1,048
Leases recognised in the period 4,494 452 1,074
Other adjustments (762) (541) –
Capital investment 28,788 24,878 23,655
Of which:
Integrated Gas 6,706 4,259 3,921
Upstream 11,075 12,785 13,160
Downstream 10,542 7, 5 6 5 6,418
Corporate 465 269 157
[A] I ncluded within Cash flow from investing activities in the “Consolidated Statement of 
Cash Flows”. 
OPERATING EXPENSES 
Operating expenses is a measure of Shell’s cost management 
performance, comprising items from the “Consolidated Statement 
of Income” as follows. 
Operating expenses
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Production and manufacturing expenses 26,438 26,970 26,652
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses 10,493 11,360 10,509
Research and development 962 986 922
Total 37, 8 9 3 39,316 38,083
Of which
Integrated Gas 6,667 6,014 5,471
Upstream 12,043 12,157 12,656
Downstream 18,697 20,743 19,583
Corporate 486 402 373
Additional Information

280
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
NON-GAAP MEASURES RECONCILIATIONS continued
RETURN ON AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED
Return on average capital employed (ROACE) measures the efficiency of 
our utilisation of the capital that we employ. In this calculation, ROACE is 
defined as income for the period, adjusted for after-tax interest expense, 
as a percentage of the average capital employed for the period. Capital 
employed consists of total equity, current debt and non-current debt.
Calculation of return on average capital employed 
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Income for the period 16,432 23,906 13,435
Interest expense after tax 3,024 2,513 2,995
Income before interest expense 19,456 26,419 16,430
Capital employed – opening 295,398 283,477 280,988
Capital employed – closing 286,887 279,358 283,477
Capital employed – average 291,142 281,417 282,233
ROACE 6.7% 9.4% 5.8%
FREE CASH FLOW AND ORGANIC FREE CASH FLOW
Free cash flow is used to evaluate cash available for financing activities, 
including dividend payments, after investment in maintaining and growing 
our business. 
Organic free cash flow is introduced in 2019, and it is defined as Free 
cash flow excluding the cash flows from acquisition and divestment 
activities. It is a measure used by management to evaluate generation 
of cash flow without these activities. Information for 2018 is stated to 
enable comparison.
Free cash flow and Organic free cash flow
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Cash flow from operating activities 42,178 53,085 35,650
Cash flow from investing activities (15,779) (13,659) (8,029)
Free cash flow 26,399 39,426 2 7, 621
Less: Cash inflows related to divestments [A] 7, 8 7 1 10,465
Add: Tax paid on divestments 187 482
Add: Cash outflows related to inorganic capital 
expenditure [B] 1,400 1,740
Organic free cash flow 20,116 31,183
[A] C ash inflows related to divestments includes Proceeds from sale of property, plant and 
equipment and businesses, Proceeds from sale of joint ventures and associates, and Proceeds 
from sale of equity securities as reported in the "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows". 
[B]
 C
ash outflows related to inorganic capital expenditure includes portfolio actions which 
expand Shell's activities through acquisitions and restructuring activities as reported in 
capital expenditure lines in the "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows". 
SHAREHOLDER DISTRIBUTION 
Shareholder distribution is used to evaluate the level of cash distribution 
to shareholders. It is defined as the sum of Cash dividends paid to Royal 
Dutch Shell plc shareholders and Repurchases of shares, both of which 
are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 
Calculation of shareholder distribution
$ million
2019 2018 2017
Cash dividends paid to Royal Dutch 
Shell plc shareholders 15,198 15,675 10,877
Repurchases of shares 10,188 3,947 –
Shareholder distribution 25,386 19,622 10,877
DIVESTMENTS
Following the completion of the $30 billion divestment programme for 
2016-18, the Divestments measure was discontinued with effect from 
January 1, 2019.
Additional Information

281
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDICES
Additional Information

282
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDIX 1
SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES AND OTHER RELATED UNDERTAKINGS (AUDITED) 
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings at December 31, 2019, are set out below. Shell’s percentage of share capital is shown to the 
nearest whole number. All subsidiaries have been included in the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on pages 190-238, and those held directly by 
the Company are marked with the footnote [a]. A number of the entities listed are dormant or not yet operational. Entities that are proportionately 
consolidated are identified by the footnote [b]. Shell-owned shares are ordinary (voting) shares unless identified with one of the following annotations 
against the company name: [c] Membership interest; [d] Partnership capital; [e] Non-redeemable; [f] Ordinary, Membership interest; [g] Ordinary, 
Non-redeemable; [h] Ordinary, Partnership capital; [i] Ordinary, Redeemable; [j] Ordinary, Redeemable, Non-redeemable; and [k] Redeemable, 
Non-redeemable. 
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
ARGENTINA
Shell Argentina S.A. Avenida Pte. Roque Sáenz Pena 788, 5th floor, Buenos Aires, 1383 100
AUSTRALIA
1st Energy Pty Ltd Level 4, 459 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000 30
Alliance Automation Pty Ltd c/o Alands Accountants, Level 1/293 Queen Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 50
Arrow Energy Holdings Pty Ltd Level 39, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 50
Austen & Butta Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
BC 789 Holdings Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
BG CPS Pty Limited Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
BNG (Surat) Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Braemar 3 Holdings Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
CCM Energy Solutions Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Condamine 1 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Condamine 2 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Condamine 3 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Condamine 4 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Condamine Power Station Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
E.R.M. Oakey Power Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Energy Locals Pty Ltd 132 Cremorne Street, Richmond, VIC 3121 33
ERM Braemar 3 Power Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Braemar 3 Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Employee Share Plan Administrator Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Energy Solutions Holdings Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Financial Services Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Gas Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Gas WA01 Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Holdings Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Innovation Labs Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Land Holdings Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Neerabup Power Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Neerabup Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Oakey Power Holdings Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Power Developments Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Power Engineering Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Power Generation Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Power International Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Power Investments Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Power Limited Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Power Projects Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Power Retail Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Power Services Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Power Utility Systems Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ERM Wellington 1 Holdings Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
ESCO Pacific Holdings Pty Ltd Level 4, 13 Cremorne Street, Richmond, VIC 3121 49
Fuelink Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Greensense Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Lumaled Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
New South Oil Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
NewGen Neerabup Pty Ltd [b] Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 50
NewGen Power Neerabup Pty Ltd [b] Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 50
Additional Information

283
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
North West Shelf LNG Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Oakey Power Holdings Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
OME Resources Australia Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Out Performers Trading Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Petroleum Resources (Thailand) Pty. Limited Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
PowerMetric Metering Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Provident & Pensions Holdings Proprietary Limited Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Pure Energy Resources Pty Limited Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QCLNG Operating Company Pty Ltd [i] Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 75
QCLNG Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC (B7) Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC (Exploration) Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC (Infrastructure) Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Common Facilities Company Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Holdings 2 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Holdings 3 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Holdings 4 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Holdings 5 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Holdings 6 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Holdings 7 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Holdings 8 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Holdings 9 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Midstream Holdings Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Midstream Investments Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Midstream Land Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Midstream Limited Partnership Level 42, Bourke Place, 600 Bourke Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000 100
QGC Midstream Services Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Northern Forestry Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Pty Limited Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Sales Qld Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Train 1 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Train 1 Tolling Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Train 1 UJV Manager Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Train 2 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Train 2 Tolling No.2 Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Train 2 Tolling Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Train 2 UJV Manager Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Upstream Finance Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Upstream Holdings Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Upstream Investments Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
QGC Upstream Limited Partnership Level 42, Bourke Place, 600 Bourke Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000 100
Queensland Electricity Investors Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Queensland Gas Company Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Richmond Valley Solar Thermal Pty Ltd Level 52, 111 Eagle Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Roma Petroleum Pty Limited Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
SASF Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
SGA (Queensland) Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
SGAI Pty Limited Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Shell Australia FLNG Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Shell Australia Lubricants Production Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Shell Australia Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Shell Australia Services Company Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Shell Custodian Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Shell Development (PSC19) Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Shell Development (PSC20) Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Shell Energy Australia Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Shell Energy Holdings Australia Limited Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Shell Energy Investments Australia Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Additional Information

284
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDIX 1 continued
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
AUSTRALIA continued
Shell Global Solutions Australia Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Shell New Energies Australia Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Shell QGC Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Shell Tankers Australia Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Solpod Pty Ltd c/o Jeffrey Zivin, 140 Belmore Road, Balwyn, VIC 3103 24
Sonnen Australia Pty Limited Lionsgate Business Park, Level 3, Main Administration Building, 180 Philip Highway, Elizabeth South, SA 5112 100
Starzap Pty Ltd Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Sunshine 685 Pty Limited Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 100
Trident LNG Shipping Services Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Trident Shipping Services Pty Ltd Shell House, 562 Wellington Street, Perth, WA 6000 100
Walloons Coal Seam Gas Company Pty Limited [i] Level 30, 275 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000 75
AUSTRIA
Salzburg Fuelling GmbH Innsbrucker Bundesstrasse 95, Salzburg, 5020 33
Shell Austria Gesellschaft mbH Tech Gate, Donau-City-Str. 1, Vienna, 1220 100
Shell Brazil Holding GmbH Tech Gate, Donau-City-Str. 1, Vienna, 1220 100
Shell China Holding GmbH Schulhof 6/1, Vienna, 1010 100
TBG Tanklager Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H. Rettenlackstrasse 3, Salzburg, 5020 50
Transalpine Ölleitung in Österreich GmbH Kienburg 11, Matrei in Osttirol, 9971 19
BAHAMAS
Shell E & P Ireland Offshore Inc. P.O. Box N4805, St. Andrew's Court, Frederick Street Steps, Nassau 100
BARBADOS
Shell Trinidad and Tobago Resources SRL One Welches, Welches, St. Thomas, BB22025 100
Shell Western Supply and Trading Limited GTC Corporate Services Limited, Sassoon House, Shirley Street & Victoria Avenue, Nassau 100
BELGIUM
Belgian Shell S.A. Cantersteen 47 , Brussels, 1000 100
New Market Belgium S.A. Cantersteen 47 , Brussels, 1000 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Belgium N.V. Pantserschipstraat 331, Gent, 9000 100
The New Motion Belgium BVBA Regentlaan 37-40, Brussels, 1000 100
BERMUDA
Egypt LNG Shipping Limited Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 11 25
Gas Investments & Services Company Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 85
Kuwait Shell Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Pecten Somalia Company Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Qatar Shell GTL Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 11 28
Shell Australia Natural Gas Shipping Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell Bermuda (Overseas) Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell Deepwater Borneo Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell EP International Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell Holdings (Bermuda) Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell International Trading Middle East Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell Markets (Middle East) Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell Mexico Exploration and Production Investment Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell Offshore Central Gabon Ltd 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell Oman Trading Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell Overseas Holdings (Oman) Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell Petroleum (Malaysia) Ltd 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell Saudi Arabia (Refining) Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell South Syria Exploration Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell Trading (M.E.) Private Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell Trust (Bermuda) Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Shell Trust (U.K. Property) Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Solen Insurance Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Solen Life Insurance Limited 3rd Floor Continental Building, 25 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 12 100
Additional Information

285
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
BRAZIL
BG Comercio e Importacao Ltda. Avenida das Republica do Chile 330, 23º Andar, Torre 2, Centro, Rio de Janeiro, 20031-170 100
BG do Brasil Ltda. Avenida das Republica do Chile 330, 23º Andar, Torre 2, Sala 2309, Centro, Rio de Janeiro, 20031-170 100
BG Petroleo & Gas Brasil Ltda. Avenida das Republica do Chile 330, 23º Andar (parte) – Torre 2, Centro, Rio de Janeiro, 20031-170 100
Fusus Comércio e Participações Ltda. Avenida das Republica do Chile nº 330, Bloco 2, Sala 2001 – Centro, Rio de Janeiro, 20031-170 100
Icolub – Industria de Lubrificantes S.A. Praia Intendente Bittencourt, 2 (Parte), Ilha do Governador, Rio de Janeiro, 21930-030 100
Marlim Azul Energia S.A. Avenida Paulista, 1274, 8º andar, Conjunto 23, Sala B, Bela Vista, São Paulo, 01310-100 30
Pecten do Brasil Servicos de Petroleo Ltda. Av. República do Chile nº 330, Bloco 2, Sala 2301, Centro, Rio de Janeiro, 20031-170 100
Raizen Combustíveis S.A. Avenida das Almirante Barroso, nº 81, 36º Andar, Sala 36A104, Rio de Janeiro, 20031-004 54
Raizen Energia S.A. Avenida Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 4100, 11th floor, part V, Itaim Bibi, São Paulo, 04538-132 49
Seapos Ltda. Av. República do Chile nº 330, Bloco 2, Sala 2401, Centro, Rio de Janeiro, 20031-170 100
Shell Brasil Participações Ltda. Avenida Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 3311, Conj 81 Sala 02, Itam Bibi, São Paulo, 04538-133 100
Shell Brasil Petroleo Ltda. Av. República do Chile nº 330, Bloco 2, Salas 2001, 2301, 2401, 2501, 3101, 3201, 3301 e 3401, Centro, 
Rio de Janeiro, 20031-170
100
Shell Energy Brasil Comercializadora de Energia Ltda. Avenida Brigadeiro Faria Lima nº 3.311, Conj 81, Sala 01, Itam Bibi, São Paulo, 04538-133 100
Shell Energy do Brasil Ltda. Avenida Brigadeiro Faria Lima nº 3.311, Conjunto 82, Itaim Bibi, São Paulo, 04538-133 100
BRUNEI
Brunei LNG Sendirian Berhad Lumut, Seria, KC2935 25
Brunei Shell Marketing Company Sendirian Berhad Brunei Shell Petroleum Company, Sendirian Berhad, Seria, KB2933 50
Brunei Shell Petroleum Company Sendirian Berhad Jalan Utara, Panaga, Seria, KB2933 50
Brunei Shell Tankers Sendirian Berhad Jalan Utara, Panaga, Seria, KB2933 25
Shell Borneo Sendirian Berhad c/o BSP Head Office, NDCO Block, Ground Floor, Jalan Utara, Panaga Seria, KB3534 100
BULGARIA
Shell Bulgaria Ead 48, Sitnyakovo Blvd., Serdika Offices, 8th floor, Sofia, 1505 100
CAMBODIA
Angkor Resources Company Limited 186C, Street No. 155, N/A – Tuol Tumpung Muoy, Chamkar Mon, Phnom Penh 49
CANADA
10084751 Canada Limited 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
1745844 Alberta Ltd. 2100, 855 – 2nd Street S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 4J8 50
7026609 Canada Inc. 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
7645929 Canada Limited 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Alberta Products Pipe Line Ltd. 5305 McCall Way N.E., Calgary, Alberta, T2E 7N7 20
Cansolv Technologies Inc. 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Coral Cibola Canada Inc. 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
FP Solutions Corporation 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 33
LNG Canada Development Inc. [b] 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 40
Sable Offshore Energy Inc. 1701 Hollis Street, Suite 1400, Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3J 3M8 33
SCL Pipeline Inc. 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
SFJ Inc. 199 Bay Street, Suite 5300, Commerce Court West, Toronto, Ontario, M5L 1B9 50
Shell Americas Funding (Canada) Limited 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Canada BROS Inc. 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Canada Energy [c] 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Canada Limited 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Canada OP Inc. 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Canada Products 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Canada Resources [c] 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Canada Services Limited 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Canada Inc. 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Chemicals Canada [c] 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Energy Merchants Canada Inc. 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Energy North America (Canada) Inc. 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Global Solutions Canada Inc. 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Quebec Limitée 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Trading Canada [c] 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Shell Treasury Centre Canada Inc 400 4th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta, T2P 0J4 100
Sun-Canadian Pipe Line Company Limited 830 Highway No. 6 North, Flamborough, Ontario, L0R 2H0 45
Trans-Northern Pipelines Inc. 45 Vogel Road, Suite 310, Richmond Hill, Ontario, L4B 3P6 33
Zeco Systems (Canada) Inc. 295 Hagey Boulevard, Suite 300, Waterloo, Ontario, N2L 6R6 100
Additional Information

286
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDIX 1 continued
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
CAYMAN ISLANDS
Beryl North Sea Limited Sterling Trust (Cayman) Limited, Whitehall House, 238 North Church Street, P.O. Box 1043, George Town, Grand Cayman, 
KY1-1102
100
BG Egypt S.A. 5th Floor, Bermuda House, Dr. Roy's Drive, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-1102 100
BG Exploration and Production India Limited Campbells, Floor 4, Willow House, Cricket Square, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-9010 100
Gas Resources Limited Zephyr House, 122 Mary Street, P.O. Box 2570, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-1103 100
Schiehallion Oil & Gas Limited Caledonian Trust (Cayman) Limited, Caledonian House, 69 Dr Roy's Drive P.O. Box 1043, George Town, Grand Cayman, 
KY1-1102
100
Shell Bolivia Corporation Zephyr House, 122 Mary Street, P.O. Box 2570, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-1103 100
Shell North Sea Holdings Limited Maples Corporate Services Limited, Ugland House, P.O. Box 309, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104 100
CHILE
Shell Chile S.A. C/O Carey y Cia Abogados, Miraflores 222, Piso 28, Santiago 100
CHINA
Anhui Shell Energy Company Limited Room 2519-2522, 25/F, Greenland Center, Cross-area of Susong Rd and Changqin St, South Erhuan, Baohe District, 
Hefei, Anhui, 230000
100
Beijing Shell Petroleum Company Ltd. Unit 1101-1104, level 11, Building 1, No. 19 Chaoyang Park Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100125 49
Cansolv Technologies (Beijing) Company Limited Unit 09, Level 31, No. 16 Building, No. 1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100004 100
Chongqing Doyen Shell Petroleum and Chemical Co. Ltd. No. 196, Shuang Yuan Street, Beibei Zone, Chongqing, 400700 49
CNOOC and Shell Petrochemicals Company Limited Dayawan Petrochemical Industrial Park, Huizhou, Guangdong, 516086 50
Fujian Xiangyu and Shell Petroleum Company Limited Unit 604, 6/F, Building C, No. 3 Yunan Fourth Road, FTPZ Xiamen Sub-zone (Tariff-free Zone), Xiamen, 361000 49
Hangzhou Natural Gas Company Limited 10/F, Meiqi Mansion, No. 30 Tianmushan Road, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310007 25
Hubei Shell Energy Company Limited No. 4, 5, 12/F, Unit A, Oceanwide International Center Office, 187 Yunxia Road, CBD, Jianhan District, Wuhan, 430000 100
Hunan Shell Energy Company Limited Room 2407-2409, Building 15, Fangmaoyuan (Phase II), No. 1177 Huanhu Road, Yuelu District, Changsha, 410006 100
Infineum (China) Co. Ltd. No. 1 Dongxin Road, Jiangsu Yangtze River International, Chemical Industry Park, Zhangjiagang, Jiangsu, 215600 50
Jiangsu Shell Energy Company Limited Room 1001, 10/F, Unit 3, No. 198 Hexi Street, Jianye District, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 210019 100
Shell (Beijing) Real Estate Consulting Ltd. Unit 01, 32/F, No. 16 Building, No. 1 Courtyard, Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100004 100
Shell (China) Limited 30/F Unit 01-02, No. 16 Building, No. 1 Courtyard, Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100004 100
Shell (China) Projects & Technology Limited Unit 01-08, Level 31, No. 16 Building, No. 1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100004 100
Shell (Shanghai) Petroleum Company Limited Room 522, The British Road No. 38, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, 200131 100
Shell (Shanghai) Technology Limited Building 4, Jin Chuang Building, No. 4560, Jin Ke Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai 100
Shell (Tianjin) Lubricants Company Limited North to Gang Bei Road and East to Hai Gang Road, Nangang Industrial Zone, Tianjin Economic-Technological 
Development Area, Tianjin, 300280
100
Shell (Tianjin) Oil and Petrochemical Company Limited No. 286 Nansan Road, Tianjin Harbour Nanjiang Dev. Zone, Tanggu, Binhai NewDistrict, Tianjin, 300452 100
Shell (Zhejiang) Petroleum Trading Limited No. 1 Wangjiaba, Xinmiaozhi Village, Puyuan Town, Tongxiang, Jiaxing, Zhejiang, 314502 100
Shell (Zhuhai) Lubricants Company Limited Nanjin Wan, Gaolan Dao, Gaolan Harbour Economic Zone, Zhuhai, 519050 100
Shell Energy (China) Limited Room 530, 5th Floor, Building 1, No. 239 Gang'ao Road, China (Shanghai) Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, 200137 100
Shell Management and Consulting Company Limited 8/F, Building 1, No. 818 Shenchang Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, 201106 100
Shell North China Petroleum Group Co., Ltd. 5th Floor, Administrative Commission Building, Wuqing Development Area, No. 18, Fuyuan Road, Wuqing District, 
Tianjin, 300203
49
Shell Road Solutions (Zhenjiang) Co. Ltd No. 68 Xianiejia, Dagang, Zhenjiang New District, Zhenjiang, 212132 100
Shell Road Solutions Xinyue (Foshan) Co. Ltd. Baisha, Hekou, Sanshui District, Foshan, Guangdong, 528133 60
Sinopec and Shell (Jiangsu) Petroleum Marketing Company Limited No. 100, Xingang Dadao, Nanjing Economic and Technological Development Zone, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 210000 40
Suzhou Liyuan Retail Site Management Co., Ltd. No. 358 Zhuhui Road, Suzhou, 215000 50
Yanchang and Shell (Guangdong) Petroleum Co., Ltd. 39th Floor as Planning-designed (41st Floor as Self-designated), Leatop Plaza, No. 32 East Zhujiang Road, Zhujiang New 
Town, Tianhe District, Guangzhou, 510623
49
Yanchang and Shell (Sichuan) Petroleum Company Limited 23F, Yanlord Square, Section 2, Renmin South Road, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610016 45
Yanchang and Shell Petroleum Company Limited 18th Floor, Tower 1, Yongli International Finance Centre, Jinye No. 1 Road, High-tech District, Xi'an, 710075 45
Zhejiang Shell Fuels Company Limited Room 2103, North Tower, Yefeng Modern Center, No. 161, Shaoxing Road, Xiacheng District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310004 49
Zhejiang Shell Oil and Petrochemical Company Limited The Port of Zhapu, Jiaxing Municipality, Zhejiang, 314201 100
Zhejiang Transfar and Shell Energy Company Limited Rm 1503, Building 2, Plaza of ZBA, No. 939 Minhe Road, Ningwei Street, Xiaoshan, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 311215 49
COLOMBIA
C.I. Shell Comercializadora Colombia, S.A.S Calle 90 No. 19 – 41, Oficina 702- Edificio Quantum, Bogotá, 452 100
Shell Colombia S.A. Calle 90 No. 19 – 41, Oficina 702- Edificio Quantum, Bogotá, 452 100
COOK ISLANDS
Branstone (International) Limited [i] Bermuda House, Tutakimoa Road, Rarotonga 100
CÔTE D'IVOIRE
Cote d'Ivoire GNL 14, Blvd Carde, Imm. Les Heveas, Plateau, Abidjan, BP V 194 13
CYPRUS
Rosneft-Shell Caspian Ventures Limited Metochiou str, 37, Agios Andreas, Nicosia, CY-1101 49
Additional Information

287
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
CZECH REPUBLIC
Shell Czech Republic a.s. Antala Staška 2027/77, Praha 4, 140 00 100
DENMARK
A/S Dansk Shell Egeskovvej 265, Fredericia, 7000 100
DCC & Shell Aviation Denmark A/S Nærum Hovedgade 8, Naerum, 2850 49
Shell EP Holdingselskab Danmark ApS Egeskovvej 265, Fredericia, 7000 100
TetraSpar Demonstrator ApS Bredgade 30, København K, 1260 66
EGYPT
Alam El Shawish Petroleum Company [b] 127 Abdel Aziz Fahmy St., Heliopolis, P.O. Box 5958, Cairo, 5958 20
Badr Petroleum Company [b] 127 Abdel Aziz Fahmy St., Heliopolis, P.O. Box 5958, Cairo, 5958 50
Burullus Gas Company S.A.E. [b] 28 Road 270, Maadi, Cairo 25
El Behera Natural Gas Liquefaction Company S.A.E. City of Rashid, El Behera Governorate 36
IDKU Natural Gas Liquefaction Company S.A.E. City of Rashid, El Behera Governorate 38
North Alam El-Shawish Petroleum Company [b] 127 Abdel Aziz Fahmy St., Heliopolis, P.O. Box 5958, Cairo, 5958 50
North Um Baraka Petroleum Company [b] 127 Abdel Aziz Fahmy St., Heliopolis, P.O. Box 5958, Cairo, 5958 50
Obaiyed Petroleum Company [b] 127 Abdel Aziz Fahmy St., Heliopolis, P.O. Box 5958, Cairo, 5958 50
Rashid Petroleum Company S.A.E. [b] 38 Street No. 270, Maadi, Cairo 40
Shell Egypt Trading Business View Building, No. 79, 90 Street (South), Fifth Settlement- New Cairo, Cairo, 11835 100
Shell Lubricants Egypt Business View Building, No. 79, 90 Street (South), Fifth Settlement- New Cairo, Cairo, 11835 100
Sitra Petroleum Company [b] 127 Abdel Aziz Fahmy St., Heliopolis, P.O. Box 5958, Cairo, 5958 50
The Egyptian LNG Company S.A.E. City of Rashid, El Behera Governorate 36
The Egyptian Operating Company for Natural Gas Liquefaction 
Projects S.A.E.
City of Rashid, El Behera Governorate 36
Tiba Petroleum Company [b] 127 Abdel Aziz Fahmy St., Heliopolis, P.O. Box 5958, Cairo, 5958 26
West Sitra Petroleum Company [b] 127 Abdel Aziz Fahmy St., Heliopolis, P.O. Box 5958, Cairo, 5958 50
FINLAND
Shell Aviation Finland Oy Teknobulevardi 3-5, Vantaa, 01530 100
FRANCE
Accurasea 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Airefsol Energies 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 67
Airefsol Energies 2 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 67
Airefsol Energies 6 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 67
Airefsol Energies 8 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 67
Airefsol Energies 9 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 67
Avitair SAS Tour Pacific, 11/13 Cours Valmy – La Défense, Puteaux, 92800 100
Centrale Photovoltaïque Bouches-du-Rhône 1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Centrale Photovoltaïque Haute-Vienne 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Centrale Photovoltaïque Landes 1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Centrale Photovoltaïque Var 1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Eolfi Offshore France 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 10
Eolfi SAS 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Eoliennes du Gentilhomme 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Ferme Eolienne Flottante de Groix & Belle-Ile 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 25
Ferme Eolienne Flottante Stenella Rhône 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Groupement Pétrolier Aviation SNC Aéroport Roissy Charles de Gaulle, Zone de Frêt 1, 3 Rue des Vignes, Tremblay-en-France, 93290 20
Infineum France Chemin départemental 54, Berre-L'Etang, 13130 50
Parc Eolien Aisne 1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Parc Eolien Charente 1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Parc Eolien Corrèze 1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Parc Eolien Côtes Armor 1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Parc Eolien de la Vrine 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Parc Eolien Haute-Saône 1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Parc Eolien HM1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Parc Eolien Jura 1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Parc Eolien Marne 1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Parc Eolien Oise 1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Parc Eolien Oise 2 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Parc Eolien Somme 1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Additional Information

288
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDIX 1 continued
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
FRANCE continued
Parc Eolien Somme 2 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Parc Eolien Yonne 1 10 place de Catalogne, Paris, 75014 100
Service Aviation Paris SNC Orly Sud No. 144 – Bat. 438, Orly Aerogares, 94541 33
Shell Retraites SAS Tour Pacific, 11/13 Cours Valmy – La Défense, Puteaux, 92800 100
Société de Gestion Mobilière et Immobilière SAS Tour Pacific, 11/13 Cours Valmy – La Défense, Puteaux, 92800 100
Société des Pétroles Shell SAS Tour Pacific, 11/13 Cours Valmy – La Défense, Puteaux, 92800 100
Ste du Pipeline Sud Européen S.A. 7-9, Rue des Frères Morane, Paris, 75015 21
The New Motion France SAS 92 Avenue Charles de Gaulle, CS 30082, Neuilly sur Seine, 92522 100
GERMANY
AGES Maut System GmbH & Co. KG Berghausener Straße 96, Langenfeld, 40764 25
BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH & Co. KG [b] Riethorst 12, Hannover, 30659 50
BEB Holding GmbH [b] Caffamacherreihe 5, Hamburg, 20355 50
Carissa Einzelhandel- und Tankstellenservice GmbH & Co. KG Willinghusener Weg 5 D-E, Oststeinbek, 22113 100
Carissa Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
CRI Deutschland GmbH Am Haupttor, Bau 8322, Leuna, 06237 100
Deutsche Infineum GmbH & Co. KG Neusser Landstraße 16, Köln, 50735 50
Deutsche Shell GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Deutsche Shell Holding GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Deutsche Transalpine Oelleitung GmbH Paul Wassermann Str. 3, Munich, 81829 19
Energeticum Energiesysteme GmbH St.-Leonhard-Straße 26, Balzhausen, 86483 100
Enersol GmbH Einsteinstr. 47 , Vaihingen an der Enz, 71665 100
Erdoel-Raffinerie Deurag-Nerag GmbH Riethorst 12, Hannover, 30659 50
euroShell Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
euroShell Deutschland Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
H2 Mobility Deutschland GmbH and Co. KG EUREF-Campus 10-11, Berlin, 10829 28
HPRDS und SPNV Deutschland Oil GmbH & Co. KG Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
HPRDS und SPNV Deutschland Verwaltungsges. mbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 90
Infineum Deutschland Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH Neusser Landstraße 16, Köln, 50735 50
Mineraloelraffinerie Oberrhein Verwaltungs GmbH DEA-Scholven-Str., Karlsruhe, 76187 32
Nord-West Oelleitung GmbH [b] Zum Oelhafen 207 , Wilhelmshaven, 26384 20
Oberrheinische Mineraloelwerke GmbH [b] DEA-Scholven-Str., Karlsruhe, 76187 42
OLF Deutschland GmbH [b] WeWork Europapassage, Hermannstraße 13, Hamburg, 20095 50
PCK Raffinerie GmbH [b] Passower Chaussee 111, Schwedt/Oder, 16303 38
Rheinland Kraftstoff GmbH Auf dem Schollbruch 24-26, Gelsenkirchen, 45899 100
Rhein-Main-Rohrleitungstransportgesellschaft mbH [b] Godorfer Hauptstrasse 186, Köln, 50997 63
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Leuna GmbH Am Haupttor, Bau 8322, Leuna, 06237 100
Shell Deutschland Additive GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Deutschland Oil GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Energy Deutschland GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Erdgas Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Erdgas Marketing GmbH & Co. KG Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 75
Shell Erdoel und Erdgas Exploration GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Exploration and Development Libya GmbH I Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Exploration and Production Colombia GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Exploration and Production Libya GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Exploration et Production du Maroc GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Exploration New Ventures One GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Exploration und Produktion Deutschland GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Global Solutions (Deutschland) GmbH Hohe-Schaar-Straße 36, Hamburg, 21107 100
Shell Hydrogen Deutschland GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Offshore Exploration und Produktion Deutschland GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell PrivatEnergie GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Tunisia Offshore GmbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Shell Verwaltungsgesellschaft für Erdgasbeteiligungen mbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
Sonnen eServices Deutschland GmbH Am Riedbach 1, Wildpoldsried, 87499 100
Sonnen eServices GmbH Am Riedbach 1, Wildpoldsried, 87499 100
Additional Information

289
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
Sonnen GmbH Am Riedbach 1, Wildpoldsried, 87499 100
Sonnen Holding GmbH Am Riedbach 1, Wildpoldsried, 87499 100
SPNV Deutschland Beteiligungsges. mbH Suhrenkamp 71 – 77, Hamburg, 22335 100
The New Motion Deutschland GmbH Wattstraße 11, Berlin, 13355 100
Tiramizoo GmbH Prannerstr. 2-4, Munich, 80333 21
Toll4Europe GmbH Französische Straße 33 a-c, Berlin, 10117 15
Wasserbeschaffungsverband Wesseling-Hersel Bruehler Str. 95, Wesseling, 50389 35
GIBRALTAR
Shell LNG Gibraltar Limited 57/63 Line Wall Road, P.O. Box 199, Gibraltar 51
GREECE
Shell & MOH Aviation Fuels A.E. 151 Kifisias Ave., Marousi, Athens, 15124 51
GREENLAND
Shell Greenland A/S P.O. Box 510, Issortarfimmut 6, 102, Nuussuaq, 3905 100
GUAM
Shell Guam Inc. 643 Chalan San Antonio, Suite 100, Tamuning, GU 96911 100
HONG KONG
AFSC Operations Limited 3 Scenic Road, Chek Lap Kok, Lantau 11
AFSC Refuelling Limited 3 Scenic Road, Chek Lap Kok, Lantau 11
Fulmart Limited 35/F AIA Kowloon Tower, Landmark East, 100 How Ming Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon 100
Hong Kong Response Limited Esso Tsing Yi Terminal, Lot 46 Tsing Yi Road, Tsing Yi Island, New Territories 25
Ocean Century Tf Limited [i] 35/F AIA Kowloon Tower, Landmark East, 100 How Ming Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon 100
Shell Developments (HK) Limited [i] 35/F AIA Kowloon Tower, Landmark East, 100 How Ming Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon 100
Shell Hong Kong Limited 35/F AIA Kowloon Tower, Landmark East, 100 How Ming Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon 100
Shell Korea Limited 35/F AIA Kowloon Tower, Landmark East, 100 How Ming Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon 100
Shell Macau Limited 35/F AIA Kowloon Tower, Landmark East, 100 How Ming Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon 100
HUNGARY
Shell Hungary Trading close Company Limited by shares Bocskai út 134-146., Budapest, 1113 100
INDIA
BG India Energy Private Limited 3-C World Trade Tower, New Barakhamba Lane, New Delhi, 110001 100
BG India Energy Services Private Limited 3-C World Trade Tower, New Barakhamba Lane, New Delhi, 110001 100
BG India Energy Solutions Private Limited 3-C World Trade Tower, New Barakhamba Lane, New Delhi, 110001 100
BG LNG Regas India Private Limited 3-C World Trade Tower, New Barakhamba Lane, New Delhi, 110001 100
Greenlots Technology India LLP Platina Tower MG Road, Near Sikandarpur Metro Station, Section, Haryana, Gurugram, 122001 100
Hazira Port Private Limited 101-103 Abhijeet-II, Mithakhali Circle, Ahmedabad 380 006, Gujarat, 380006 100
Pennzoil Quaker State India Limited Plot No. T-5, MIDC, Taloja Industrial Area, Tal-Panvel, Raigad District, Mumbai, MH 410208 100
Shell Energy India Private Limited 101-103 Abhijeet-II, Mithakhali Circle, Ahmedabad 380 006, Gujarat, 380006 100
Shell Energy Marketing and Trading India Private Limited 2nd floor, Campus 4A, RMZ Millenia Business Park II, 143 Dr MGR Road, Kandhanchavady, Perungudi, Chennai, 
TN 600096
100
Shell India Markets Private Limited 2nd floor, Campus 4A, RMZ Millenia Business Park II, 143 Dr MGR Road, Kandhanchavady, Perungudi, Chennai, 
TN 600096
100
Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels and Services Limited 102, Prestige Sigma, Vittal Mallya Road, Bangalore, 560001 50
Shell Pahal Social Welfare Association 7 , Bangalore Hardware Park, Devanahalli Industrial Park, Mahadeva-Kodigehalli, Bangalore, 562149 100
Tiki Tar and Shell India Private Limited Tiki Tar Industries Village Road, Near Bhandup village, Bhandup West Mumbai, Mumbai, MH 400078 50
INDONESIA
PT Shell LNG Indonesia Talavera Office Park 22-26th Floor, Jl. Letjen. TB Simatupang Kav. 22-26, Jakarta Selatan, Jakarta, 12430 100
PT. Shell Indonesia Talavera Office Park 22-26th Floor, Jl. Letjen. TB Simatupang Kav. 22-26, Jakarta Selatan, Jakarta, 12430 100
PT. Shell Manufacturing Indonesia Talavera Office Park 22-26th Floor, Jl. Letjen. TB Simatupang Kav. 22-26, Jakarta Selatan, Jakarta, 12430 100
IRAQ
Basrah Gas Company Khor Al Zubair, Basrah 44
IRELAND
Asiatic Petroleum Company (Dublin) Limited 1st Floor, Temple Hall, Temple Road, Blackrock, Co. Dublin, A94 K3K0 100
Irish Shell Trust Designated Activity Company 1st Floor, Temple Hall, Temple Road, Blackrock, Co. Dublin, A94 K3K0 100
Shell and Topaz Aviation Ireland Limited Suite 7 Northwood House, Northwood Business Park, Santry, Dublin, 9 50
ISLE OF MAN
Petrolon Europe Limited First Names House, Victoria Road, Douglas, IM2 4DF 100
Petrolon International Limited First Names House, Victoria Road, Douglas, IM2 4DF 100
Shell Marine Personnel (I.O.M.) Limited Euromanx House, Freeport, Ballasalla, IM9 2AP 100
Shell Ship Management Limited Euromanx House, Freeport, Ballasalla, IM9 2AP 100
Additional Information

290
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDIX 1 continued
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
ISRAEL
Ravin AI Ltd. Derech Aba Hilel 16, Ramat Gan, 5250608 36
ITALY
Alle S.R.L. Via Vittor Pisani 16, Milano, 20124 100
Aquila S.p.A. Via Vittor Pisani 16, Milano, 20124 100
BG Italia Power S.r.l Via Tortona 25, Milano, 20144 100
Brindisi LNG S.r.l. Via Tortona 25, Milano, 20144 100
Infineum Italia S.R.L. Strada di Scorrimento 2, Vado Ligure, Savona, 17047 50
Shell Energy Italia S.R.L. Via Vittor Pisani 16, Milano, 20124 100
Shell Fleet Solutions Consorzio Via Susa 40, Torino, 10138 100
Shell International Exploration and Development Italia S.p.A. Piazza dell'Indipendenza 11/B, Rome, 00185 100
Shell Italia E&P S.p.A. Piazza dell'Indipendenza 11/B, Rome, 00185 100
Shell Italia Holding S.p.A. Via Vittor Pisani 16, Milano, 20124 100
Shell Italia Oil Products S.R.L. Via Vittor Pisani 16, Milano, 20124 100
Societa Italiana per l'Oleodotto Transalpino S.p.A. Via Muggia #1, San Dorligo della Valle, Trieste, 34147 19
Societa' Oleodotti Meridionali S.p.A. Via Emilia 1, San Donato Milanese, 20097 30
Sonnen eServices Italia S.R.L. Via Autostrada 32, Bergamo, 24126 100
Sonnen S.R.L. Via Autostrada 32, Bergamo, 24126 100
JAPAN
Brunei Energy Services Company Ltd. 1-8-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-0005 25
CO2-free Hydrogen Energy Supply-chain TRA 7F Kokuryu Shiba Koen Building 2-6-15, Shiba Koen, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 105-0011 25
Sakhalin LNG Services Company Ltd. 2-3, Kanda, Awaji-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 101-0063 50
Shell Japan Limited 16F Pacific Century Place, 1-11-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-Ku, Tokyo, 100-6216 100
Sonnen Japan Kabushiki Kaisha 16F Pacific Century Place, 1-11-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-Ku, Tokyo, 100-6216 100
JERSEY
Shell Service Station Properties Limited Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St. Helier, JE1 1ES 100
LUXEMBOURG
Denham International Power SCSp [d] 412F, route d'Esch, Luxembourg, L-2086 32
Shell Finance Luxembourg Sarl 7, Rue de l'Industrie, Bertrange, Luxembourg, L-8069 100
Shell Luxembourgeoise Sarl 7, Rue de l'Industrie, Bertrange, Luxembourg, L-8005 100
Shell Treasury Luxembourg Sarl 7, Rue de l'Industrie, Bertrange, Luxembourg, L-8069 100
MACAU
Shell Macau Petroleum Company Limited 876 Avenida da Amizade, Edificio Marina Gardens, Room 310, 3rd Floor 100
MALAYSIA
Bonuskad Loyalty Sdn. Bhd. [i] Level 8, Symphony House, Block D13, Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A/46, Petaling Jaya/Selangor Darul Ehsan, 
47301
33
IOT Management Sdn. Bhd. Lot 7689 and Lot 7690, Section 64, Kuching Town Land District, Jalan Pending, Kuching, Sarawak, 93450 7
Kebabangan Petroleum Operating Company Sdn. Bhd. [b] Suite 13.03, 13 Floor, Menara Tan & Tan, 207 Tun Razak, Kuala Lumpur/Federal Territory, 50400 30
P S Pipeline Sendirian Berhad Level 30, Tower 1, Petronas Twin Towers, KLCC, Kuala Lumpur/Federal Territory, 50088 50
P S Terminal Sendirian Berhad 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, Petaling Jaya/Selangor Darul Ehsan, 46200 35
Pertini Vista Sdn. Bhd. 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, Petaling Jaya/Selangor Darul Ehsan, 46200 100
Provista Ventures Sdn. Bhd. 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, Petaling Jaya/Selangor Darul Ehsan, 46200 100
Sarawak Shell Berhad 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, Petaling Jaya/Selangor Darul Ehsan, 46200 100
Shell Business Service Centre Sdn. Bhd. 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, Petaling Jaya/Selangor Darul Ehsan, 46200 100
Shell Global Solutions (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, Petaling Jaya/Selangor Darul Ehsan, 46200 100
Shell Malaysia Trading Sendirian Berhad 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, Petaling Jaya/Selangor Darul Ehsan, 46200 100
Shell MDS (Malaysia) Sendirian Berhad 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, Petaling Jaya/Selangor Darul Ehsan, 46200 72
Shell New Ventures Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. [i] 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, Petaling Jaya/Selangor Darul Ehsan, 46200 100
Shell People Services Asia Sdn. Bhd. 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, Petaling Jaya/Selangor Darul Ehsan, 46200 100
Shell Sabah Selatan Sendirian Berhad 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, Petaling Jaya/Selangor Darul Ehsan, 46200 100
Shell Timur Sdn. Bhd. 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, Petaling Jaya/Selangor Darul Ehsan, 46200 70
Shell Treasury Malaysia (L) Limited Kensington Gardens, No. U1317 , Lot 7616, Jalan Jumidar Buyong, Labuan F.T., 87000 100
Tanjung Manis Oil Terminal Management Sdn. Bhd. Lot 7689 and Lot 7690, Section 64, Kuching Town Land District, Jalan Pending, Kuching, Sarawak, 93450 14
MAURITIUS
BG Mauritius LNG Holdings Ltd 6th Floor, Tower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, 72201 100
BG Mumbai Holdings Limited 6th Floor, Tower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, 72201 100
Pennzoil Products International Company 33 Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, 11324 100
Additional Information

291
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
MEXICO
Comercial Importadora S.A. De C.V. Guillermo González Camarena No. 400, Santa Fe, lvaro Obregón, Ciudad de México, 1210 50
Concilia Asesores y Servicios, S.A. de C.V. Guillermo González Camarena No. 400, Santa Fe, lvaro Obregón, Ciudad de México, 1210 50
Gas Del Litoral, S. de R.L. de C.V. Avenida Paseo de las Palmas 340, 1st floor, Colonia Lomas de Chapultepec, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, Ciudad de 
México, 11000
100
Mega Gasolineras SA de CV Avenida Cerro Gordo del Campestre 201 int 202, Las Quintas, León, Guanajuato, 37125 50
Shell Energy Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Avenida Paseo de las Palmas 340, 1st floor, Colonia Lomas de Chapultepec, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, Ciudad de 
México, 11000
100
Shell Exploración y Extracción de México, S.A. de C.V. Avenida Paseo de las Palmas 340, 1st floor, Colonia Lomas de Chapultepec, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, Ciudad de 
México, 11000
100
Shell México Gas Natural, S. de R.L. de C.V. Avenida Paseo de las Palmas 340, 1st floor, Colonia Lomas de Chapultepec, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, Ciudad de 
México, 11000
100
Shell México, S.A. de C.V. Avenida Paseo de las Palmas 340, 1st floor, Colonia Lomas de Chapultepec, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, Ciudad de 
México, 11000
100
Shell Servicios México, S.A. de C.V. Avenida Paseo de las Palmas 340, 1st floor, Colonia Lomas de Chapultepec, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, Ciudad de 
México, 11000
100
Shell Solutions Mexico S.A. de C.V. Avenida Paseo de las Palmas 340, 1st floor, Colonia Lomas de Chapultepec, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, Ciudad de 
México, 11000
100
Shell Trading México, S. de R.L. de C.V. Avenida Paseo de las Palmas 340, 1st floor, Colonia Lomas de Chapultepec, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, Ciudad de 
México, 11000
100
NETHERLANDS
Amsterdam Schiphol Pijpleiding Beheer B.V. Amsterdamseweg 55, 1182 GP Amstelveen, P.O. Box 75650, Luchthaven Schiphol, 1118 ZS 40
Attiki Gas B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
B.R.E. B.V. Lelystad, Deventer, 7425 SB 100
B.V. Dordtsche Petroleum Maatschappij Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
B.V. Petroleum Assurantie Maatschappij Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
BG Gas Atlantic Holdings B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
BG Gas Brazil E&P 12 B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
BG Gas Brazil Holdings B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
BG Gas Global Holdings B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
BG Gas International B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
BG Gas International Holdings B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
BG Gas Netherlands Holdings B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
BG Gas Sao Paulo Investments B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
BJS Oil Operations B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 80
BJSA Exploration and Production B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Blauwwind II C.V. [d] Weena 70, Rotterdam, 3012 CM 20
Blauwwind Management II B.V. Weena 70, Rotterdam, 3012 CM 20
Caspi Meruerty Operating Company B.V. [b] Muiderstraat 1, Amsterdam, 1011 PZ 40
Chosun Shell B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Cicerone Holding B.V. Herikerbergweg 238, Amsterdam, 1101 CM 51
Ellba B.V. [b] Vondelingenweg 601, Vondelingenplaat, Rotterdam, 3196 KK 50
Ellba C.V. [b] [d] Vondelingenweg 601, Vondelingenplaat, Rotterdam, 3196 KK 50
Euroshell Cards B.V. Weena 70, Rotterdam, 3012 CM 100
Fitzroy C.V. [d] Stationsplein 45, Rotterdam, 3013 AK 20
Gasterra B.V. P.O. Box 477, Groningen, 9700 AL 25
Guara B.V. Weena 722, Rotterdam, 3014 DA 30
Hkz Lp 18 B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Hkz Lp 19 B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Hkz Lp 20 B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Hkz Lp 21 B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Hkz Lp 22 B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Iara B.V. Weena 762, 9e verdieping, kamer A, Rotterdam, 3014 DA 25
Infineum Holdings B.V. Herikerbergweg 238, Amsterdam, 1101 CM 50
Integral Investments B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Jordan Oil Shale Company B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Karachaganak Petroleum Operating B.V. [b] Strawinskylaan 1345, Amsterdam, 1077 XX 29
Lapa Oil & Gas B.V. Weena 762, 9e verdieping, kamer A, Rotterdam, 3014 DA 30
Libra Oil & Gas B.V. Weena 762, Rotterdam, 3014 DA 20
LNG Shipping Operation Services Netherlands B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Loyalty Management Netherlands B.V. Polaris Avenue 81, P.O. Box 2047, 2130 GE, Hoofddorp, 2132 JH 40
Additional Information

292
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDIX 1 continued
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
NETHERLANDS continued
Maasvlakte Olie Terminal C.V. [d] Europaweg 975, Maasvlakte, Rotterdam, 3199 LC 16
Multi Tank Card B.V. Antareslaan 39, P.O. Box 3068, 2130 KB, Hoofddorp, 2132 JE 30
N.V. Rotterdam-Rijn Pijpleiding Maatschappij [b] Butaanweg 215, Vondelingplaat, Rotterdam, 3196 KC 56
Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. Schepersmaat 2, Assen, 9405 TA 50
Netherlands Alng Holding Company B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Noordzeewind B.V. 2e Havenstraat 5b, Ijmuiden, 1976 CE 50
Noordzeewind C.V. [d] 2e Havenstraat 5b, Ijmuiden, 1976 CE 50
North Caspian Operating Company N.V. [b] Oostduinlaan 2, The Hague, 2596 JM 17
Paqell B.V. Reactorweg 301, unit 1.3, Utrecht, 3542 AD 50
Raffinaderij Shell Mersin N.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
RESCO B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Salym Petroleum Development N.V. [b] Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 50
Shell Abu Dhabi B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Additives Holdings (I) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Additives Holdings (II) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Albania Block 4 B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell and Vivo Lubricants B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 50
Shell Asset Management Company B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Brazil Holding B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Business Development Central Asia B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Caspian B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Caspian Pipeline Holdings B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Chemicals Europe B.V. Weena 70, Rotterdam, 3012 CM 100
Shell Chemicals Ventures B.V. [k] Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell China B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell China Holdings B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Deepwater Tanzania B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Development Iran B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Downstream Services International B.V. Weena 70, Rotterdam, 3012 CM 100
Shell E and P Offshore Services B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Egypt N.V. [e] Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Energy Europe B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell EP Holdings (EE&ME) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell EP Middle East Holdings B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell EP Oman B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell EP Russia Investments (III) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell EP Russia Investments (V) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell EP Somalia B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell EP Wells Equipment Services B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Europe New Energies Holding B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration & Production Brunei B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (100) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (101) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (102) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (103) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (104) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (105) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (106) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (107) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (79) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (82) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (84) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (89) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (90) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (91) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (92) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (93) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Additional Information

293
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
Shell Exploration and Production (94) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (96) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (99) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LI) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LXI) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LXII) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LXV) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LXVI) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LXXI) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LXXV) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production (XL) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production Holdings B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production Investments B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production Mauritania (C10) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production Mauritania (C19) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production Services (RF) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production South Africa B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production Ukraine I B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production Ukraine Investments (I) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production Ukraine Investments (II) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration and Production West-Siberia B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration Company (RF) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration Company (West) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration Company B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Exploration Venture Services B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Finance (Netherlands) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Gas & Power Developments B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Gas (LPG) Holdings B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Gas B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Gas Iraq B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Gas Nigeria B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Gas Venezuela B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Generating (Holding) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Geothermal B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Global Solutions (Eastern Europe) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Global Solutions International B.V. Lange Kleiweg 40, Rijswijk, 2288 GK 100
Shell Global Solutions Services B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Information Technology International B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Integrated Gas Oman B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell International B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell International Exploration and Production B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 16, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell International Finance B.V. [a] Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Internationale Research Maatschappij B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Internet Ventures B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Iraq Petroleum Development B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Iraq Services B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Kazakhstan B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Kazakhstan Development B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Kuwait Exploration and Production B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell LNG Bunkering B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell LNG Port Spain B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Lubricants Supply Company B.V. Weena 70, Rotterdam, 3012 CM 100
Shell Manufacturing Services B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Mozambique B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell MSPO 2 Holding B.V. Vondelingenweg 601, Vondelingenplaat, Rotterdam, 3196 KK 100
Shell Namibia Upstream B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Nanhai B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Additional Information

294
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDIX 1 continued
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
NETHERLANDS continued
Shell Nederland B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Nederland Chemie B.V. [i] Chemieweg 25, P.O. Box 6060, Moerdijk, 4780 LN 100
Shell Nederland Raffinaderij B.V. Vondelingenweg 601, Vondelingenplaat, Rotterdam, 3196 KK 100
Shell Nederland Verkoopmaatschappij B.V. Weena 70, Rotterdam, 3012 CM 100
Shell Netherlands Canada Financing B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell New Energies NL B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Offshore (Personnel) Services B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Offshore Services B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell OKLNG Holdings B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Olie OG Gas Holding B.V. [k] Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Oman Exploration and Production B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Overseas Investments B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Pensioenbureau Nederland B.V. Postbus 157, The Hague, 2501 CD 100
Shell Petroleum N.V. [a] Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Philippines Exploration B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Project Development (VIII) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell RDS Holding B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Sakhalin Holdings B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Sakhalin Services B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Salym Development B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Sao Tome and Principe B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Services Oman B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Shared Services (Asia) B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell TapUp B.V. Hofplein 20, Rotterdam, 3032 AC 100
Shell Technology Ventures Fund 1 B.V. Strawinskylaan 3127 8e etage, Amsterdam, 1077 ZX 52
Shell Trademark Management B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Trading Rotterdam B.V. Weena 70, Rotterdam, 3012 CM 100
Shell Trading Russia B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Upstream Albania B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Upstream Development B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Upstream Indonesia Services B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Upstream Spain B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Upstream Turkey B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Ventures B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Ventures Investments B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Western LNG B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Windenergy Netherlands B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Shell Windenergy NZW I B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
Snijders Olie B.V. Weena 70, Rotterdam, 3012 CM 100
SolarNow B.V. Zeelandsestraat 1, Millingen aan de Rijn, 6566 DE 23
Syria Shell Petroleum Development B.V. [j] Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 65
Tamba B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 50
Tankstation Exploitatie Maatschappij Holding B.V. Weena 70, Rotterdam, 3012 CM 100
The Green Near Future 5 B.V. Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, The Hague, 2596 HR 100
The New Motion B.V. Rigakade 20, Amsterdam, 1013 BC 100
Travis Road Services International B.V. Dr. Hub van Doorneweg 183, Tilburg, 5026 RD 34
Tupi B.V. Wilhelminatoren, Wilhelminaplein 14, Rotterdam, 3072 25
W2C GP B.V. Stationsplein 45, Rotterdam, 3013 AK 20
Waalbrug Exploitatie Maatschappij B.V. Henri Berssenbruggestraat 9, Deventer, 7425 SB 100
Zeolyst C.V. Oosterhorn 36, Farmsum, 9936 HD 50
NEW ZEALAND
Energy Finance NZ Limited c/o Baker Tilly Staples Rodway Taranaki Limited, 109-113 Powderham Street, P.O. Box 146, New Plymouth, Taranaki, 4340 100
Energy Holdings Offshore Limited c/o Baker Tilly Staples Rodway Taranaki Limited, 109-113 Powderham Street, P.O. Box 146, New Plymouth, Taranaki, 4340 100
Shell (Petroleum Mining) Company Limited c/o Baker Tilly Staples Rodway Taranaki Limited, 109-113 Powderham Street, P.O. Box 146, New Plymouth, Taranaki, 4340 100
Shell Energy Asia Limited c/o Baker Tilly Staples Rodway Taranaki Limited, 109-113 Powderham Street, P.O. Box 146, New Plymouth, Taranaki, 4340 100
Shell Investments NZ Limited c/o Baker Tilly Staples Rodway Taranaki Limited, 109-113 Powderham Street, P.O. Box 146, New Plymouth, Taranaki, 4340 100
Southern Petroleum No Liability c/o Baker Tilly Staples Rodway Taranaki Limited, 109-113 Powderham Street, P.O. Box 146, New Plymouth, Taranaki, 4340 100
Additional Information

295
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
NIGERIA
All on Partnerships for Energy Access Limited by Guarantee 44 Bourdillon Road, Ikoyi, Lagos 100
BG Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
BG Upstream A Nigeria Limited Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Delta Business Development Limited Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Nigeria LNG Limited Corporate Office, Intels Aba Road Estate, Km16 Aba Expressway, Port Harcourt, 500211 26
NLNG Shipping Management Limited Corporate Office, Intels Aba Road Estate, Km16 Aba Expressway, Port Harcourt, 500211 20
Shell Exploration and Production Africa Limited Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Nigeria Business Operations Limited Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Nigeria Closed Pension Fund Administrator Ltd Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company Ltd Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Echo Limited Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Nigeria Exploration Properties Alpha Limited Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Nigeria Exploration Properties Beta Limited Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Nigeria Exploration Properties Charlie Limited Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Nigeria Gas Ltd (SNG) Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Nigeria Infrastructure Development Limited Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Nigeria Offshore Prospecting Limited Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Nigeria Oil Products Limited (SNOP) Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Nigeria Ultra Deep Limited Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Nigeria Upstream Ventures Limited Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 100
Shell Thrift & Loan Fund Trustees Nig Ltd Freeman House, 21/22 Marina, P.M.B. 2418, Lagos 99
The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited Shell Industrial Area, P.O. Box 263, Rivers State, Port Harcourt, 500272 100
NORWAY
A/S Norske Shell Tankvegen 1, Tananger, 4056 100
Aviation Fuelling Services Norway AS Bygg 6, Drammensveien 134, Oslo, 0277 50
Enhanced Well Technologies Group AS Kongsgårdbakken 1, Stavanger, 4005 35
Gasnor AS Helganesvegen 59, Avaldsnes, Karmøy, 4262 100
Ormen Lange Eiendom DA Nyhamna, Aukra, 6480 18
Shell New Energies AS Karenslyst Allé 2, Oslo, 0278 100
Technology Centre Mongstad DA Mongstad 71A, Mongstad, 5954 8
Vestprosess DA Forusbeen 50, Stavanger, 4035 8
OMAN
Oman LNG LLC P.O. Box 560, Mina Al Fahal, Muscat, 116 30
Petroleum Development Oman LLC P.O. Box 81, Mina Al Fahal, Muscat, 113 34
Shell Development Oman LLC P.O. Box 74, Mina Al Fahal, Muscat, 116 100
Shell Oman Marketing Company SAOG P.O. Box 38, Mina Al Fahal, Muscat, 116 49
Sohar Solar Qabas (FZC) LLC P.O. Box 398, Sohar Free Zone, North Al Batinah Governorate, Sohar, 322 100
PAKISTAN
Pak Arab Pipeline Company Limited House No. 2-B, Nazimuddin Road, F-8/1, Islamabad, 75400 20
Pakistan Energy Gateway Limited E110, Khayaban e Jinnah, Lahore Cantonement, Punjab, Cantonement, 54810 33
Shell Energy Pakistan (smc-private) Limited Shell House, 6 Ch. Khaliquzzaman Road, Karachi, 75530 100
Shell Pakistan Limited Shell House, 6 Ch. Khaliquzzaman Road, Karachi, 75530 76
PERU
Shell GNL Peru S.A.C. Calle Dean Valdivia 111, Oficina 802, San Isidro, Lima, Lima 27 100
Shell Operaciones Peru S.A.C. Calle Dean Valdivia 111, Oficina 802, San Isidro, Lima, Lima 27 100
PHILIPPINES
Bonifacio Gas Corporation 2nd Floor, Bonifacio Technology Center, 31st Street corner 2nd Avenue, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig, Metro Manila, 1635 24
Connected Freight Solutions Philippines, Inc. 41st Floor, The Finance Center, 26th Street corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig, Metro Manila, 1635 84
Kamayan Realty Corporation NDC Bldg., 116 Tordesillas St., Salcedo Village, Makati City, Metro Manila, 1227 22
Manta Energy Inc 1004 East Tower, PSE Centre, Exchange Road, Ortigas Center, Pasig City, 1605 100
Pilipinas Shell Petroleum Corporation 41st Floor, The Finance Center, 26th Street corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig, Metro Manila, 1635 55
Shell Chemicals Philippines, Inc. 41st Floor, The Finance Center, 26th Street corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig, Metro Manila, 1635 100
Shell Gas and Energy Philippines Corporation 41st Floor, The Finance Center, 26th Street corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig, Metro Manila, 1635 100
Shell Gas Trading (Asia Pacific), Inc. Subic Bay Free Port Zone, Olangapo City, 2200 100
Shell Solar Philippines Corporation 41st Floor, The Finance Center, 26th Street corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig, Metro Manila, 1635 100
Tabangao Realty, Inc. Unit D 9th Floor Inoza Tower, 40th Street, North Bonifacio, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig, Metro Manila, 1634 40
Additional Information

296
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDIX 1 continued
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
POLAND
Shell Energy Retail Poland Sp. z o.o. Al. Pokoju 5, Krakow, 31-548 100
Shell Polska Sp. z o.o. ul. Bitwy Warszawskiej 1920 r. nr 7A, Warsaw, 02-366 100
PORTUGAL
Shell Madeira Praia Formosa – Instalações, 
Comércio e Distribuição de Combustíveis S.A
Avenida dos Combatentes da Grande Guerra nº 17, Freguesia de S. Juliao, Setúbal, 2900-329 100
PUERTO RICO
Station Managers of Puerto Rico, Inc. P.O. Box 186, Yabucoa, PR 00767-0186 100
QATAR
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (4) P.O. Box 22666, Doha 30
Qatar Shell Research & Technology Centre QSTP-LLC Qatar Science & Technology Park Tech1, Office 101, P.O. Box 3747, Doha 100
Qatar Shell Service Company W.L.L. Al Mirqab Tower, West Bay, P.O. Box 3747, Doha 100
RUSSIA
Khanty-Mansiysk Petroleum Alliance Closed Joint 
Stock Company [b]
24 A Yakubovicha ul., Saint Petersburg, 190000 50
Limited Liability Company "Shell Neft" 24 Bld D Smolnaya street, Moscow, 125445 100
Limited Liability Company "Shell Neftegaz Development (V)" Novinsky blvd, 31, Moscow, 123242 100
LLC Shell NefteGaz Development Novinsky blvd, 31, Moscow, 123242 100
Meretoyahaneftegaz LLC [b] [c] 16 Komsomolskaya street, Apartment 36, Yamalo-Nenetsky Autonomous Region, Nadym, 629733 50
Syriaga Neftegaz Development LLC Novinsky blvd, 31, Moscow, 123242 100
SAINT KITTS AND NEVIS
Shell Oil & Gas (Malaysia) LLC Morning Star Holdings Limited, Main Street, Suite 556, Charlestown, Nevis, West Indies 90
SAINT LUCIA
BG Atlantic 1 Holdings Limited Mercury Court, Choc Estate, Castries 100
BG Atlantic 2/3 Holdings Limited Mercury Court, Choc Estate, Castries 100
BG Atlantic 4 Holdings Limited Mercury Court, Choc Estate, Castries 100
BG Central Holdings Ltd. Mercury Court, Choc Estate, Castries 100
BG West Indies No. 2 Limited Mercury Court, Choc Estate, Castries 100
SAUDI ARABIA
Al Jomaih and Shell Lubricating Oil Co.Ltd. P.O. Box 41467, Riyadh, 11521 50
Peninsular Aviation Services Company Limited P.O. Box 6369, Jeddah, 21442 25
SINGAPORE
BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte. Limited The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
BG Asia Pacific Services Pte. Ltd. The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
BG Exploration & Production Myanmar Pte. Ltd. The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
BG Insurance Company (Singapore) Pte Ltd 10 Collyer Quay, #10-01 Ocean Financial Centre, Singapore, 049315 100
BG Myanmar Pte. Ltd. The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
BG Oil Marketing Pte Ltd The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Cleantech Renewable Assets Pte Ltd 25 Church Street, 03-04 Capital Square three, Singapore, 049482 49
Connected Freight Pte. Ltd. The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 84
Ellba Eastern (Pte) Ltd The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Fuelng Pte. Ltd 50 Gul Road, Singapore, 629351 50
Infineum Singapore LLP 31 International Business Park, #04-08, Creative Resource, Singapore, 609921 50
QPI and Shell Petrochemicals (Singapore) Pte Ltd The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 51
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Pte. Ltd. The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Shell Chemicals Seraya Pte. Ltd. The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Shell Eastern Petroleum (Pte) Ltd [i] The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Shell Eastern Trading (Pte) Ltd [i] The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Shell Gas Marketing Pte. Ltd. The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Shell India Ventures Pte. Ltd. The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Shell Integrated Gas Thailand Pte.Limited The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Shell International Shipping Services (Pte) Ltd The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Shell Myanmar Energy Pte. Ltd. The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Shell Myanmar Petroleum Pte. Ltd. The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Shell Pulau Moa Pte Ltd The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Shell Seraya Pioneer (Pte) Ltd The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Shell Singapore Trustees (Pte) Ltd The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Shell Tankers (Singapore) Private Limited The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Additional Information

297
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
Shell Treasury Centre East (Pte) Ltd The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 100
Singapore Lube Park Pte. Ltd. [b] 160 Tuas South Avenue 5, Singapore, 637364 44
Sirius Well Manufacturing Services Pte. Ltd. [b] The Metropolis Tower 1, 9 North Buona Vista Drive, #07-01, Singapore, 138588 50
Zeco Systems Pte. Ltd. 1 Commonwealth Lane, #09-30, One Commonwealth, Singapore, 149544 99
SLOVAKIA
SHELL Slovakia s.r.o. Einsteinova 23, Bratislava, 851 01 100
SLOVENIA
Shell Adria d.o.o. Bravnicarjeva ulica 13, Ljubljana, 1000 100
SOUTH AFRICA
Bituguard Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd Twickenham, The Campus, 57 Sloan Street, Epsom Downs, Bryanston, 2021 36
Blendcor (Pty) Ltd. [b] Honshu Road, Durban, 4001 36
Sekelo Oil Trading (Pty) Limited 1st Floor Oxford Parks, 199 Oxford Road, Dunkeld, Gauteng, 2196 43
Shell & BP South African Petroleum Refineries (Pty) Limited [b] Reunion, Durban, 4001 36
Shell Downstream South Africa (Pty) Ltd Twickenham, The Campus, 57 Sloan Street, Epsom Downs, Bryanston, 2021 72
Shell Global Customer Services Centre Cape Town (Pty) Ltd 10 Rua Vasco de Gama, Foreshore, Cape Town, 8000 100
Shell South Africa Energy (Pty) Ltd Twickenham, The Campus, 57 Sloan Street, Epsom Downs, Bryanston, 2021 100
Shell South Africa Exploration (Pty) Limited Twickenham, The Campus, 57 Sloan Street, Epsom Downs, Bryanston, 2021 100
Shell South Africa Holdings (Pty) Ltd Twickenham, The Campus, 57 Sloan Street, Epsom Downs, Bryanston, 2021 100
STISA (Pty) Limited Suite OE/2, The Nautica, The Waterclub, Beach Road, Granger Bay, Cape Town, 8001 72
SOUTH KOREA
Hankook Shell Oil Company No. 250, Sinsun-ro, Nam-gu, Busan, 48561 54
Hyundai and Shell Base Oil Co., Ltd 640-6, Daejuk-ri, Daesan-eup, Seosan-shi, Chungchongnam-do, 356-713 40
SPAIN
BG Energy Iberian Holdings, S.L. Paseo de la Castellana, 257-6º, Madrid, 28046 100
Shell & Disa Aviation España, S.L. Rio Bullaque, 2, Madrid, 28034 50
Shell España, S.A. Paseo de la Castellana, 257-6º, Madrid, 28046 100
Shell Spain LNG, S.A.U. Paseo de la Castellana, 257-6º, Madrid, 28046 100
SUDAN
Shell (Sudan) Petroleum Development Company Limited Shell House, P.O. Box 320, Khartoum 100
SWEDEN
A Flygbränslehantering Aktiebolag P.O. Box 135, Stockholm-Arlanda, 190 46 25
BG International Services AB Deloitte, P.O. Box 450, Östersund, 831 26 100
Gothenburg Fuelling Company AB P.O. Box 2154, Gothenburg, 438 14 33
Malmö Fuelling Services AB Sturup Flygplats, P.O. Box 22, Malmö, 230 32 33
Shell Aviation Sweden AB Gustavslundsvägen 22, Bromma, 16751 100
Stockholm Fuelling Services AB P.O. Box 85, Stockholm-Arlanda, 190 45 25
SWITZERLAND
Saraco SA Route de Pré-Bois 17, Cointrin, 1216 20
Shell (Switzerland) AG Baarermatte, Baar, 6340 100
Shell Brands International AG Baarermatte, Baar, 6340 100
Shell Corporate Services Switzerland AG Baarermatte, Baar, 6340 100
Shell Finance Switzerland AG Baarermatte, Baar, 6340 100
Shell Holdings Switzerland AG Baarermatte, Baar, 6340 100
Shell Lubricants Switzerland AG Steigerhubelstrasse 8, Bern, 3008 100
Shell Trading Switzerland AG Baarermatte, Baar, 6340 100
Shell Treasury Company Switzerland AG Baarermatte, Baar, 6340 100
SOGEP Sociéte Genevoise des Pétroles SA Route de Vernier 132, Vernier, 1214 34
Solen Versicherungen AG Baarermatte, Baar, 6340 100
Stazioni Autostradali Bellinzona SA Autostrada A2 (direzione Gottardo), Hotel Bellinzona Sud, Monte Carasso, 6513 50
UBAG – Unterflurbetankungsanlage Flughafen Zürich AG Zwüscheteich, Rümlang, 8153 20
SYRIA
Al Badiah Petroleum Company Damascus New Sham Western Dummar, Island No. 1 – Property 2299, P.O. Box 7660, Damascus 22
Al Furat Petroleum Company Damascus New Sham Western Dummar, Island No. 1 – Property 2299, P.O. Box 7660, Damascus 20
TAIWAN
CPC Shell Lubricants Co. Ltd No. 2, Tso-Nan Road, Nan-Tze District, P.O. Box 25-30, Kaohsiung, 811 51
Shell Taiwan Limited International Trade Building, Room 2001, 20th Floor, 333, Keelung Road Section 1, Taipei, 110 100
Additional Information

298
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDIX 1 continued
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
TANZANIA
Fahari Gas Marketing Company Limited 1st Floor Kilwa House, Plot 369, Toure Drive, Oyster Bay, P.O. Box 105833, Dar es Salaam 53
Mzalendo Gas Processing Company Limited 1st Floor Kilwa House, Plot 369, Toure Drive, Oyster Bay, P.O. Box 105833, Dar es Salaam 53
Ruvuma Pipeline Company Limited 1st Floor Kilwa House, Plot 369, Toure Drive, Oyster Bay, P.O. Box 105833, Dar es Salaam 53
Tanzania LNG Limited 1st Floor Kilwa House, Plot 369, Toure Drive, Oyster Bay, P.O. Box 105833, Dar es Salaam 100
THAILAND
Pattanadhorn Company Limited 10 Soonthornkosa Road, Klongtoey, Bangkok, 10110 42
Sahapanichkijphun Company Limited 10 Soonthornkosa Road, Klongtoey, Bangkok, 10110 42
Shell Global Solutions (Thailand) Limited 10 Soonthornkosa Road, Klongtoey, Bangkok, 10110 48
Shell Global Solutions Holdings (Thailand) Limited 10 Soonthornkosa Road, Klongtoey, Bangkok, 10110 49
Shell Global Solutions Service (Thailand) Company Limited 10 Soonthornkosa Road, Klongtoey, Bangkok, 10110 100
Thai Energy Company Limited 10 Soonthornkosa Road, Klongtoey, Bangkok, 10110 100
Unitas Company Limited 10 Soonthornkosa Road, Klongtoey, Bangkok, 10110 42
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BG 2/3 Investments Limited 5 Saint Clair Avenue, Saint Clair, Port of Spain 100
Point Fortin LNG Exports Limited 5 Saint Clair Avenue, Saint Clair, Port of Spain 81
Shell Gas Supply Trinidad Limited 5 Saint Clair Avenue, Saint Clair, Port of Spain 100
Shell LNG T&T Ltd 5 Saint Clair Avenue, Saint Clair, Port of Spain 100
Shell Manatee Limited 5 Saint Clair Avenue, Saint Clair, Port of Spain 100
Shell Trinidad Central Block Limited 5 Saint Clair Avenue, Saint Clair, Port of Spain 100
Shell Trinidad Ltd Shell Energy House, 5 St. Clair Avenue, Port of Spain 100
Shell Trinidad North Coast Limited 5 Saint Clair Avenue, Saint Clair, Port of Spain 100
The International School of Port of Spain Limited 1 International Drive, Westmoorings 25
TRINLING Limited 5 Saint Clair Avenue, Saint Clair, Port of Spain 100
TUNISIA
Amilcar Petroleum Operations S.A. Immeuble Mezghenni, Rue du Lac Windermere BP36, Les Berges du Lac, Tunis, 1053 50
Shell Tunisia LPG S.A. Immeuble Rue du Lac Windermere, Les Berges du Lac, Tunis, 1053 100
Tunisian Processing S.A. Immeuble Rue du Lac Windermere, Les Berges du Lac, Tunis, 1053 100
TURKEY
Ambarli Depolama Hizmetleri Ltd. Sti. Yakuplu Mah. Gencosman Cad. No:7 , Beylikduzu, Istanbul, 34524 35
Cekisan Depolama Hizmetleri Ltd. Sti. Yakuplu Mah. Gencosman Cad. No:3, Beylikduzu, Istanbul, 34524 35
Marmara Depoculuk Hizmetleri A.S. Sultankoy Mahallesi Maltepe Sokak No:66, Marmara Ereglisi, Tekirdag, 59750 32
Samsun Akaryakit VE Depolama A.S. Dilovasi Organize Sanayi Bolgesi 1.Kisim, 1004 Sokak No:10, Dilovasi, Kocaeli 35
Shell & Turcas Petrol A.S. Gulbahar Mah.Salih Tozan Sok., Karamancilar Is Merkezi B Blok No:18, Esentepe, Sisli, Istanbul, 34394 70
Shell Enerji A.S. Gulbahar Mah.Salih Tozan Sok., Karamancilar Is Merkezi B Blok No:18, Esentepe, Sisli, Istanbul, 34394 100
Shell Petrol A.S. Gulbahar Mah.Salih Tozan Sok., Karamancilar Is Merkezi B Blok No:18, Esentepe, Sisli, Istanbul, 34394 70
UK
Alie Investments Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Angkor Shell Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Applied Blockchain Ltd Level 39, One Canada Square, London, E14 5AB 21
Autogas Limited Athena House, Athena Drive, Tachbrook Park, Warwick, CV34 6RL 50
BG Central Holdings Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Cyprus Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Delta Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Employee Shares Trustees Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Energy Capital Plc Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Energy Holdings Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Energy Marketing Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Equatorial Guinea Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Exploration and Production Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Gas Services Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Gas Supply (UK) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG General Holdings Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG General Partner Limited 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ 100
BG Global Employee Resources Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Great Britain Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Group Company Secretaries Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Group Employee Benefit Trust Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Additional Information

299
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
BG Group Employee Shares Trustees Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Group Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Group Pension Trustees Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Group Trustees Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Intellectual Property Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG International Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Iran Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Karachaganak Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Karachaganak Trading Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Kenya L10A Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Kenya L10B Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG LNG Investments Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Mongolia Holdings Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Netherlands Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Netherlands Financing Unlimited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Norge Exploration Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Norge Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG North Sea Holdings Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG OKLNG Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Overseas Holdings Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Overseas Investments Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Overseas Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Pension Funding Scottish Limited Partnership [l] 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ 100
BG Rosetta Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG South East Asia Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Subsea Well Project Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Tanzania Holdings Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG Trinidad LNG Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
BG UK Holdings Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Brazil Shipping I Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Brazil Shipping II Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
British Pipeline Agency Limited 5-7 Alexandra Road, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, HP2 5BS 50
B-Snug Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
CRI Catalyst Company Europe Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Derivatives Trading Americas Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Dragon LNG Group Limited [b] Main Road, Waterston, Milford Haven, Pembrokeshire, SA73 1DR 50
Eastham Refinery Limited [b] Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 50
Enterprise Oil Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Enterprise Oil Middle East Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Enterprise Oil Norge Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Enterprise Oil Operations Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Enterprise Oil U.K. Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Farepilot Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
First Telecommunications Limited Shell Energy House, Westwood Business Park, Westwood Way, Coventry, CV4 8HS 100
First Utility Limited Shell Energy House, Westwood Business Park, Westwood Way, Coventry, CV4 8HS 100
Gainrace Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Gatwick Airport Storage and Hydrant Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 13
Glossop Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
GOGB Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Heathrow Airport Fuel Company Limited Building 1204, Sandringham Road, Heathrow Airport, Hounslow, Middlesex, TW6 3SH 14
Heathrow Hydrant Operating Company Limited Building 1204, Sandringham Road, Heathrow Airport, Hounslow, Middlesex, TW6 3SH 10
Hudson Energy Supply UK Limited 3/F Elder House, 586-592 Elder Gate, Milton Keynes, MK9 1LR 100
Impello Limited Shell Energy House, Westwood Business Park, Westwood Way, Coventry, CV4 8HS 100
International Inland Waterways, Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Karachaganak Project Development Limited [b] Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 38
[l] E stablished by BG Group plc and the BG Trustee in 2013 as part of funding agreements associated with the BG pension scheme. Under the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships 
(Accounts) Regulations 2008, the accounts of this partnership have not been appended to Shell’s Consolidated Financial Statements and have not been filed at the Companies House.
Additional Information

300
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDIX 1 continued
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
UK continued
Khmer Shell Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Kite Power Systems Limited 146 New London Road, Chelmsford, Essex, CM2 0AW 34
Limejump Energy Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Intermediate 1 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Ltd Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 1 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 10 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 11 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 12 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 13 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 14 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 15 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 2 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 3 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 4 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 5 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 6 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 7 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 8 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Limejump Virtual 9 Limited Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, London, SW9 6DE 100
Machine Max Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 56
Manchester Airport Storage and Hydrant Company Limited 50 Broadway, London, SW1H 0BL 25
Maritime Association for Risk Mitigation & Safety Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Methane Services Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Murphy Schiehallion Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Octane Properties Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Private Oil Holdings Oman Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 85
Sabah Shell Petroleum Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Saxon Oil Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Saxon Oil Miller Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Schooner Trustees Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
SELAP Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
SF Investment Management Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Aircraft Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Arabia Car Service Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Aviation Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Business Development Middle East Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Caribbean Investments Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Chemical Company of Eastern Africa Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Chemicals (Hellas) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Chemicals Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Chemicals Support Services Asia Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Chemicals U.K. Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell China Exploration and Production Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Clair UK Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Club Corringham Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Company (Hellas) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Company (Pacific Islands) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Corporate Director Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Corporate Secretary Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Direct (U.K.) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Distributor (Holdings) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Employee Benefits Trustee Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Energy Europe Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Additional Information

301
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
Shell Energy Investments Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Energy Retail Limited Shell Energy House, Westwood Business Park, Westwood Way, Coventry, CV4 8HS 100
Shell Energy Supply UK LTD. Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell EP Offshore Ventures Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Exploration and Production Tanzania Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Finance GB Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Gas Holdings (Malaysia) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Gas Marketing U.K Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Global LNG Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Hasdrubal Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Holdings (U.K.) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Information Technology International Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell International Gas Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell International Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell International Petroleum Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell International Trading and Shipping Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Malaysia Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Marine Products Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell New Energies UK Ltd Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Overseas Holdings Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Overseas Services Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Pension Reserve Company (SIPF) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Pension Reserve Company (SOCPF) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Pension Reserve Company (UK) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Pensions Trust Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Property Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell QGC Holdings Limited [i] Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell QGC Midstream 1 Limited [i] Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell QGC Midstream 2 Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell QGC Upstream 1 Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell QGC Upstream 2 Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Research Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Response Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Shared Service Centre – Glasgow Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell South Asia LNG Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Supplementary Pension Plan Trustees Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Tankers (U.K.) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Trading International Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Treasury Centre Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Treasury Dollar Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Treasury Euro Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Treasury UK Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Trinidad 5(A) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Trinidad and Tobago Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Trinidad Block E Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Trustee Solutions Limited 1 Altens Farm Road, Nigg, Aberdeen, AB12 3FY 100
Shell Tunisia Upstream Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell U.K. Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell U.K. North Atlantic Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell U.K. Oil Products Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Upstream Overseas Services (I) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Ventures New Zealand Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell Ventures U.K. Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Shell-Mex and B.P. Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 60
Stansted Fuelling Company Limited Exxonmobil House, Ermyn Way, Leatherhead, KT22 8UX 14
Steama Company Limited Pannone Corporate Llp, 378-380 Deansgate, Castlefield, Manchester, M3 4LY 35
Additional Information

302
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDIX 1 continued
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
UK continued
STT (Das Beneficiary) Limited [a] Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Synthetic Chemicals (Northern) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Telegraph Service Stations Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
The Anglo-Saxon Petroleum Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
The Asiatic Petroleum Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
The Consolidated Petroleum Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 50
The Mexican Eagle Oil Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
The New Motion EVSE Limited 4th Floor, Davidson Building, 5 Southampton Street, London, WC2E 7HA 100
The Shell Company (W.I.) Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
The Shell Company of Hong Kong Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
The Shell Company of India Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
The Shell Company of Nigeria Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
The Shell Company of Thailand Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
The Shell Company of The Philippines Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 75
The Shell Company of Turkey Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
The Shell Company of West Africa Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
The Shell Marketing Company of Borneo Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
The Shell Petroleum Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Thermocomfort Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
UK Shell Pension Plan Trust Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
United Kingdom Oil Pipelines Limited [b] 5-7 Alexandra Road, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, HP2 5BS 48
Walton-Gatwick Pipeline Company Limited [b] 5-7 Alexandra Road, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, HP2 5BS 52
West London Pipeline and Storage Limited [b] 5-7 Alexandra Road, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, HP2 5BS 38
Wonderbill Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
Woodlea Limited Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA 100
UKRAINE
Shell Ukraine Exploration and Production I LLC 4 Mykoly Grinchenka street, Kiev, 03038 100
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
Abu Dhabi Gas Industries Limited (GASCO) P.O. Box 665, Abu Dhabi 15
Emdad Aviation Fuel Storage FZCO Emdad Aviation Fuel Storage FZCO, P.O. Box 261781, Jebel Ali, Dubai 33
Sharjah Fuelling Services Company Ltd. P.O. Box 4225, Sharjah, 4225 49
URUGUAY
BG (Uruguay) S.A. La Cumparsita, 1373 4th Floor, Montevideo, 11200 100
Dinarel S.A. La Cumparsita, 1373 4th Floor, Montevideo, 11200 50
Gasoducto Cruz del Sur S.A. La Cumparsita, 1373 4th Floor, Montevideo, 11200 40
USA
Aera Energy LLC [b] 10000 Ming Avenue, Bakersfield, CA 93311 52
Aera Energy Services Company 10000 Ming Avenue, Bakersfield, CA 93311 50
Airbiquity Inc. 1191 2nd Avenue, Suite 1900, Seattle, WA 98101 26
Amberjack Pipeline Company LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 30
Asset Management and Power Services LLC 2441 High Timbers Drive, Suite 220, The Woodlands, TX 77380 50
Atlantic 1 Holdings LLC [c] RL & F Service Corp, 920 N King St Floor 2, New Castle, Wilmington, DE 19801 46
Atlantic 2/3 Holdings LLC [c] RL & F Service Corp, 920 N King St Floor 2, New Castle, Wilmington, DE 19801 58
Atlantic 4 Holdings LLC [c] RL & F Service Corp, 920 N King St Floor 2, New Castle, Wilmington, DE 19801 1
Atlantic Shores Offshore Wind, LLC [c] Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE 19808 50
Au Energy, LLC 41805 Albrae Street, Fremont, CA 94538 50
Baconton Power LLC [c] 1499 38th Boulevard N.W., Cairo, GA 31728 35
Bengal Pipeline Company LLC Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE 19808 28
BG Brasilia, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
BG Energy Finance, Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
BG Energy Merchants, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
BG Gulf Coast LNG, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
BG LNG Services, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
BG LNG Trading, LLC The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
BG North America, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Additional Information

303
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
BG US Production Company, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
BG US Services, Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Bluware Headwave Ventures Inc. 16285 Park Ten Place, Suit 300, Houston, TX 77084 20
Brazil Crude Services, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Brazos Wind Ventures, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Caesar Oil Pipeline Company, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 15
Colbea Enterprises, LLC 2050 Plainfield Pike, Cranston, RI 02921 50
Colonial Pipeline Company Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE 19808 8
Concha Chemical Pipeline LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Crestwood Permian Basin LLC The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 24
CRI Sales and Services Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
CRI Zeolites Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Cumulus Digital Systems, Inc. Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE 19808 44
Deer Park Refining Limited Partnership [b] [d] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 50
Distributed Generation Solutions LLC 2441 High Timbers Drive, Suite 220, The Woodlands, TX 77380 33
EcoSmart Solution LLC Corporation Service Company, 215 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE 19808 35
Ellwood Land Holdings, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Endymion Oil Pipeline Company, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 5
Enterprise Oil North America Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
EPP LLC [c] C T Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX 75201 100
Equilon Enterprises LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Explorer Pipeline Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 19
Gaviota Terminal Company [d] 150 N. Dairy Ashford, Houston, TX 77079 20
GI Endurant LLC [b] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 58
GI Energy Storage LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
GlassPoint Solar Inc. 47669 Fremont Blvd., Fremont, CA 94538 39
Husk Power Systems, Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 30
Infineum USA Inc. 1900 East Linden Avenue, Linden, NJ 07036 50
Infineum USA L.P. [h] Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, DE 19808 50
J & J Lubrication, LLC [c] C T Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX 75201 100
Jiffy Lube International, Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Lake Charles Exports, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 80
Laurentide E&P, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Lazlyng Real Estate Company, LLC [c] C T Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX 75201 100
LOCAP LLC The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 20
LOOP LLC The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 46
Maple Power Holdings LLC Bechtel Enterprises, 12011 Sunset Hills Road, Reston, VA 20190 68
Mars Oil Pipeline Company LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 34
Mattox Pipeline Company LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 79
Mayflower Wind Energy LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 50
MP2 Energy LLC [c] C T Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX 75201 100
MP2 Energy NE LLC [c] C T Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX 75201 100
MP2 Energy NY LLC [c] C T Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX 75201 100
MP2 Energy Retail Holdings LLC [c] C T Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX 75201 100
MP2 Energy Texas LLC [c] C T Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX 75201 100
MP2 Generation LLC [c] C T Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX 75201 100
MP2 Mesquite Creek Wind LLC [c] C T Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX 75201 100
Mpower2 LLC [c] C T Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX 75201 100
Noble Assurance Company C T Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX 75201 100
Odyssey Pipeline L.L.C. [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 34
Oryx Caspian Pipeline, L.L.C. [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Pacwest Energy, LLC. 3450 E. Commercial Ct., Meridian, ID 83642 50
Pecten Arabian Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Pecten Brazil Exploration Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Pecten Midstream LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 48
Pecten Orient Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Pecten Orient Company LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Additional Information

304
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDIX 1 continued
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
USA continued
Pecten Producing Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Pecten Trading Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Pecten Victoria Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Pecten Yemen Masila Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Pennzoil-Quaker State Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Pennzoil-Quaker State International Corporation The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Pennzoil-Quaker State Nominee Company The Corporation Trust Company of Nevada, 311 South Division Street, Carson City, NV 89703 100
Peru LNG Company LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 20
Poseidon Oil Pipeline Company, LLC The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 17
Power Limited Partnership [d] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Premium Velocity Auto LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Proteus Oil Pipeline Company, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 5
Quaker State Investment Corporation The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
RDK Ventures, LLC 4080 West Jonathan Moore Pike, Columbus, IN 47201 50
RK Caspian Shipping Company, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
S T Exchange, Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Salamander Solutions Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 28
San Pablo Bay Pipeline Company LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Sand Dollar Pipeline LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 48
SCOGI GP [d] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell (US) Gas & Power M&T Holdings, Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell California Pipeline Company LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Americas LP [d] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Holdings Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies LP [d] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies US LP [d] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Catalysts Ventures Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Chemical Appalachia LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Chemical LP [d] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Chemicals Arabia L.L.C. [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Communications, Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Deepwater Royalties Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Downstream Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Energy Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Energy Holding GP LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Energy North America (US), L.P. [d] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Energy Resources Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell EP Holdings Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Expatriate Employment US Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Exploration & Production Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Exploration Company Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Frontier Oil & Gas Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Gas Gathering Corp. #2 The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Global Solutions (US) Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell GOM Pipeline Company LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Gulf of Mexico Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Information Technology International Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell International Exploration and Production Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Lake Charles Operations, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Leasing Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Marine Products (US) Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Midstream LP Holdings LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Midstream Operating LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 48
Shell Midstream Partners GP LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Additional Information

305
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
Shell Midstream Partners, L.P. [h] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 48
Shell NA Gas & Power Holding Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell NA LNG LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell New Energies US LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell North America Gas & Power Services Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Offshore and Chemical Investments Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Offshore Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Offshore Response Company LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Oil Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Oil Company Investments Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Oil Products Company LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Onshore Ventures Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Petroleum Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Pipeline Company LP [d] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Pipeline GP LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Rail Operations Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Retail and Convenience Operations LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell RSC Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Thailand E&P Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Trademark Management Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Trading (US) Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Trading North America Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Trading Risk Management, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Trading Services Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Transportation Holdings LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Treasury Center (West) Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell US E&P Investments LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell US Gas & Power LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell US Hosting Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell US LNG, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell Ventures LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell WindEnergy Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Shell WindEnergy Services Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Ship Shoal Pipeline Company [d] 150 N. Dairy Ashford, Houston, TX 77079 43
Silicon Ranch Corporation The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 43
SOI Finance Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Sonnen Inc. 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, New Castle County, Wilmington, DE 19808 100
SOPC Holdings East LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
SOPC Holdings West LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
SOPC Southeast Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
SWEPI LP [d] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Tejas Coral GP, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Tejas Coral Holding, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Tejas Power Generation, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Texas Petroleum Group LLC 11111 Wilcrest Green, Suite 100, Houston, TX 77042 50
Texas-New Mexico Pipe Line Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
The Valley Camp Coal Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Three Wind Holdings, LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 50
TMR Company The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Tri Star Energy LLC 1740 Ed Temple Blvd, Nashville, TN 37208 33
Triton Diagnostics Inc. The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Triton Terminaling LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 100
Triton West LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 48
True North Energy LLC 10346 Brecksville Rd, Brecksville, OH 44141 50
URSA Oil Pipeline Company LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 45
Additional Information

306
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2019
APPENDIX 1 continued
Company by country of incorporation Address of registered office %
USA continued
West Shore Pipe Line Company Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE 19808 19
Zeco Holdings, Inc. 1013 Centre Road, County of New Castle, Delaware, Wilmington, DE 19805 100
Zeco Systems, Inc. 1013 Centre Road, County of New Castle, Delaware, Wilmington, DE 19805 100
Zeolyst International 3333 Hwy 6 South, Houston, TX 77082 50
Zydeco Pipeline Company LLC [c] The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801 52
VENEZUELA
Shell Venezuela Productos, C.A. Av. Orinoco, Edificio Centro Empresarial Premium, Piso 2, Oficina 2-B, Urbanización Las Mercedes, Caracas, Distrito 
Capital, 1060
100
Shell Venezuela, S.A. Av. Orinoco, Edificio Centro Empresarial Premium, Piso 2, Oficinas 2-A y 2-B, Urbanización Las Mercedes, Caracas, Distrito 
Capital, 1060
100
Sucre Gas, S.A. Avenida Leonardo Da Vinci, Edificio PDV Servicios, Caracas, Distrito Capital 30
VIETNAM
Shell Vietnam Ltd Go Dau Industrial Zone, Phuoc Thai Commune, Long Thanh District, Dong Nai Province 100
ZIMBABWE
Central African Petroleum Refineries (Private) Limited Block 1, Tendeseka Office Park, CNR Samora Machel Avenue, Renfrew Road, Harare 21
Additional Information

NOTES

NOTES

The Annual General Meeting will be held on May 19, 2020.
2019 Fourth 
quarter [A]
2020 First 
quarter [B]
2020 Second 
quarter [B]
2020 Third 
quarter [B]
Results announcements January 30 April 30 July 30 October 29
Interim dividend timetable
Announcement date January 30 [C] April 30 July 30 October 29
Ex-dividend date [D] February 13 May 14 August 13 November 12
Record date February 14 May 15 August 14 November 13
Closing of currency election date [E] February 28 June 2 August 28 November 27
Pounds sterling and euro equivalents announcement date March 9 June 8 September 8 December 3
Payment date March 23 June 22 September 21 December 16
[A] I n respect of the financial year ended December 31, 2019.
[B]
 I
n respect of the financial year ended December 31, 2020.
[C]
 T
he Directors do not propose to recommend any further distribution in respect of 2019.
[D]
 T
he New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), with effect from September 5, 2017 , reduced the standard settlement cycle in accordance with the SEC amendments to Exchange Act Rule 
15c6-1(a). Under these rules, regular settlement will occur on a T+2 basis for trades occurring on or after the SEC’s implementation date of September 5, 2017 . As a result RDS A ADSs 
and RDS B ADSs traded on the NYSE markets will now settle in line with RDS A shares and RDS B shares traded on European markets, who moved to a T+2 settlement basis for trades 
in 2014, resulting in the same ex-dividend date for RDS A shares, RDS B shares, RDS A ADSs and RDS B ADSs. Record dates will not change. The timings of these are detailed above.
[E]
 A d
ifferent currency election date may apply to shareholders holding shares in a securities account with a bank or financial institution ultimately through Euroclear Nederland. This 
may also apply to other shareholders who do not hold their shares either directly on the Register of Members or in the corporate sponsored nominee arrangement. Shareholders can 
contact their broker, financial intermediary, bank or financial institution for the election deadline that applies.
REGISTERED OFFICE
Royal Dutch Shell plc 
Shell Centre 
London SE1 7NA 
United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales 
Company number 4366849 
Registered with the Dutch Trade Register 
under number 34179503
HEADQUARTERS
Royal Dutch Shell plc
Carel van Bylandtlaan 30
2596 HR The Hague
The Netherlands
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS
Royal Dutch Shell plc 
Carel van Bylandtlaan 30 
2596 HR The Hague 
The Netherlands 
+31 (0)70 377 1272
or
Royal Dutch Shell plc 
Shell Centre 
London SE1 7NA 
United Kingdom 
+44 (0)20 7934 3363 
royaldutchshell.shareholders@shell.com 
www.shell.com/shareholder
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Royal Dutch Shell plc 
PO Box 162 
2501 AN The Hague 
The Netherlands 
+31 (0)70 377 4540
or
Shell Oil Company 
Investor Relations 
150 N Dairy Ashford 
Houston, TX 77079 
USA 
+1 832 337 2034 
ir-europe@shell.com 
ir-usa@shell.com 
www.shell.com/investor
SHARE REGISTRATION
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
United Kingdom 
0800 169 1679 (UK) 
+44 (0)121 415 7073
For online information about your holding 
and to change the way you receive your 
company documents: 
www.shareview.co.uk
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY 
SHARES (ADSS)
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. 
P.O. Box 64504 
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 
USA
Overnight correspondence to: 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. 
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101 
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100 
USA 
+1 888 737 2377 (USA only) 
+1 651 453 2128 (International) 
jpmorgan.adr@equiniti.com 
www.adr.com/shareholder
REPORT ORDERING
www.shell.com/order
Annual Report/20-F service for
US residents
+1 888 301 0504
FINANCIAL CALENDAR IN 2020

ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019  ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC
 Fo llow @Shell on Twitter
 www.facebook.com/shell
CHECK OUR LATEST NEWS
ALL OUR REPORTS ARE AVAILABLE AT
HTTP://REPORTS.SHELL.COM
 ■ Comprehensive financial information on our 
activities throughout 2019
 ■ Detailed operational information including maps
 ■ Report on our progress in contributing to 
sustainable development
