ANNUAL 
REPORT 
Royal Dutch Shell plc Annual Report 
and Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2014

CONTENTS 01
INTRODUCTION
01 Form 20-F
02 Cross reference to Form 20-F
04 Terms and abbreviations
05 About this Report
06
STRATEGIC REPORT
06 Chairman’s message
07 Chief Executive Officer’s review
09 Business overview
11 Risk factors
15 Strategy and outlook
16 Market overview
18 Summary of results
20 Performance indicators
22 Selected financial data
23 Upstream
40 Downstream
47 Corporate
48 Liquidity and capital resources
52 Environment and society
56 Our people
58
GOVERNANCE
58 The Board of Royal Dutch Shell plc
61 Senior Management
62 Directors’ Report
65 Corporate governance
76 Audit Committee Report
79 Directors’ Remuneration Report
99
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTS
Consolidated Financial Statements
142 Supplementary information – oil and
gas (unaudited)
160 Parent Company Financial Statements
17 Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access
Trust Financial Statements
179
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
179 Shareholder information
185 Section 13(r) of the US Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 disclosure
186 Non-GAAP measures reconciliations
187 Exhibits
Cover photo
T h ep h o t os h o w saS h e l le m p l o y e ea tS h e l l
Technology Centre Amsterdam (STCA).
STCA has played a key role in Shell’s
technological developments for more than
100 years. It comprises 80,000 square
metres of laboratories, test facilities,
workshops and offices. STCA’s work is
vital for delivering affordable energy
with less environmental impact.
Designed by Conran Design Group
Typeset by RR Donnelley
Printed by Tuijtel under ISO 14001
99
1

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
Form 20-F
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014
Commissionf ile number 1-32575
Royal Dutch Shell plc
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Englanda nd Wales
(Jurisdiction of incorporation or organisation)
Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, 2596 HR, The Hague, The Netherlands
Tel. no: 011 31 70 377 9111
royaldutchshell.shareholders@shell.com
(Address of principal executive offices)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act
Title of Each Class Nameo f Each Exchange on Which Registered
American Depositary Shares representing two A ordinary shares
of the issuer with a nominal value of€0.07 each
N e wY o r kS t o c kE x c h a n g e
American Depositary Shares representing two B ordinary shares
of the issuer with a nominal value of€0.07 each
N e wY o r kS t o c kE x c h a n g e
0.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2015 New York Stock Exchange
3.1% Guaranteed Notes due 2015 New York Stock Exchange
3.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2015 New York Stock Exchange
Floating Rate Guaranteed Notes due 2015 New York Stock Exchange
Floating Rate Guaranteed Notes due 2016 New York Stock Exchange
0.9% Guaranteed Notes due 2016 New York Stock Exchange
1.125% Guaranteed Notes due 2017 New York Stock Exchange
5.2% Guaranteed Notes due 2017 New York Stock Exchange
1.9% Guaranteed Notes due 2018 New York Stock Exchange
2.0% Guaranteed Notes due 2018 New York Stock Exchange
4.3% Guaranteed Notes due 2019 New York Stock Exchange
4.375% Guaranteed Notes due 2020 New York Stock Exchange
2.375% Guaranteed Notes due 2022 New York Stock Exchange
2.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2023 New York Stock Exchange
3.4% Guaranteed Notes due 2023 New York Stock Exchange
6.375% Guaranteed Notes due 2038 New York Stock Exchange
5.5% Guaranteed Notes due 2040 New York Stock Exchange
3.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2042 New York Stock Exchange
4.55% Guaranteed Notes due 2043 New York Stock Exchange
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: none
Securities for which there is a reporting obligation pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Act: none
Indicate the number of outstanding shares of each of the issuer’s classes of capital or common stock as of the close of the period covered by the annual
report.
Outsta ndinga so f December 31, 2014:
3,867,361,824 A ordinary shares with a nominal value of €0.07 each.
2,427,675,757 B ordinary shares with a nominal value of €0.07 each.
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Í Yes ‘ No
If this report is an annual or transition report, indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file to Section 13
pursuant reports or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. ‘ Yes Í No
Note — Checking the box above will not relieve any registrant required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 from their obligations under those Sections.
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during th e preceding 12 months (or for such shor ter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Í Yes ‘ No
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any,
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and po sted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this
chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post
such files). Í Yes ‘ No
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer.
See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):
Large accelerated filer Í Accelerated filer ‘ Non-accelerated filer ‘
Indicate by check mark which basis of accounting the registrant has used to prepare the financial statements included in
this filing: U.S. GAAP ‘
International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. Í Other ‘
If “Other” has been checked in response to the previous question, indicate by check mark which financial statement item
the registrant has elected to follow. Item 17 ‘ Item 18 ‘
If this is an annual report, indicate by check mark whether t he registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act). ‘ Yes Í No
Copies ofn otices andc ommunications from the Securities and Exchange Commission should be sent to:
Royal Dutch Shell plc
Carel van Bylandtlaan 30
2596 HR, The Hague, The Netherlands
Attn: Michiel Brandjes

02 INTRODUCTION
CROSS REFERENCE TO FORM 20-F SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
CROSS REFERENCE TO FORM 20-F
Part I Pages
Item 1. Identity of Directors, Seni or Management and Advisers N/A
Item 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable N/A
Item 3. Key Information
A. Selected financial data 22, 181
B. Capitalisation and indebtedness 50, 51
C. Reasons for the offer and use of proceeds N/A
D. Risk factors 11-14
Item 4. Information on the Company
A. History and development of the company 9, 15,18, 23-30, 32, 40-42, 179, 186
B. Business overview 9-21, 23-47, 52-57, 142-150, 158-159, 185
C. Organisational structure 9, E2-E3
D. Property, plant and equipment 15, 18-19, 23-46, 52-56, 142-159
Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments N/A
Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects
A. Operating results 10-14, 18-47, 131-136
B. Liquidity and capital resources 15, 18-19, 23-24, 32, 40-42, 48-51, 70, 114-115,
123-126, 131-136, 166, 177-178
C. Research and development, patents and licences, etc. 10, 64, 112
D. Trend information 9-10, 15-21, 23-26, 40-46
E. Off-balance sheet arrangements 51
F. Tabular disclosure of contractual obligations 51
G. Safe harbour 51
Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees
A. Directors and senior management 58-61, 66-67
B. Compensation 81-90
C. Board practices 58-60, 62-81, 90, 97
D. Employees 56, 140
E. Share ownership 57, 81-98, 115-116, 137, 179
Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions
A. Major shareholders 74-75, 179-180
B. Related party transactions 63, 113, 122, 140-141, 169-170, 178
C. Interests of experts and counsel N/A
Item 8. Financial Information
A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information 48-51, 99-141, 160-178
B. Significant changes 64
Item 9. The Offer and Listing
A. Offer and listing details 182
B. Plan of distribution N/A
C. Markets 179
D. Selling shareholders N/A
E. Dilution N/A
F. Expenses of the issue N/A
Item 10. Additional Information
A. Share capital 49, 57, 64, 86-88, 109, 136-137, 164, 167-169, 176, 179
B. Memorandum and articles of association 71-75
C. Material contracts N/A
D. Exchange controls 184
E. Taxation 184-185
F. Dividends and paying agents 62, 71-73, 179, 183, back cover
G. Statement by experts N/A
H. Documents on display 5
I. Subsidiary information N/A
Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 70-71, 111-117, 122, 131-136, 167, 177-178
Item 12. Description of Securities Other than Equity Securities 179, 183-184

INTRODUCTION 03
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CROSS REFERENCE TO FORM 20-F
Part II Pages
Item 13. Defaults, Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies N/A
Item 14. Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds N/A
Item 15. Controls and Procedures 70-71, 105, 173, E4-E5
Item 16. [Reserved]
Item 16A. Audit committee financial expert 65, 76
Item 16B. Code of Ethics 66
Item 16C. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 78, 141, 170, 178
Item 16D. Exemptions from the Listing Standards for Audit Committees 65
Item 16E. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers 50
Item 16F. Change in Registrant’s Certifying Accountant N/A
Item 16G. Corporate Governance 65-66
Item 16H. Mine Safety Disclosure N/A
Part III Pages
Item 17. Financial Statements N/A
Item 18. Financial Statements 99-141, 160-178
Item 19. Exhibits 187, E1-E8

04 INTRODUCTION
TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CURRENCIES
$ US dollar
€ euro
£ sterling
UNITS OF MEASUREMENT
acre approximately 0.004 square kilometres
b(/d) barrels (per day)
boe(/d) barrels of oil equivalent (per day); natural gas volumes are
converted to oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf
per barrel
kboe(/d) thousand barrels of oil equivalent (per day); natural gas
volumes are converted to oil equivalent using a factor of
5,800 scf per barrel
MMBtu million British thermal units
mtpa million tonnes per annum
per day volumes are converted to a daily basis using a
calendar year
scf(/d) standard cubic feet (per day)
PRODUCTS
GTL gas to liquids
LNG liquefied natural gas
LPG liquefied petroleum gas
NGL natural gas liquids
MISCELLANEOUS
ADS American Depositary Share
AGM Annual General Meeting
API American Petroleum Institute
CCS carbon capture and storage
CCS earnings earnings on a current cost of supplies basis
CO2 carbon dioxide
DBP Deferred Bonus Plan
EMTN euro medium-term note
EPS earnings per share
GAAP generally accepted accounting principles
HSSE health, safety, security and environment
IAS International Accounting Standard
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard(s)
IPIECA the global oil and gas industry association for
environmental and social issues
LTIP Long-term Incentive Plan
OGP International Association of Oil & Gas Producers
OML oil mining lease
OPEC Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
PSC production-sharing contract
PSP Performance Share Plan
R&D research and development
REMCO Remuneration Committee
SEC US Securities and Exchange Commission
TRCF total recordable case frequency
TSR total shareholder return
WTI West Texas Intermediate

INTRODUCTION 05
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 ABOUT THIS REPORT
ABOUT THIS REPORT
The Royal Dutch Shell plc Annual Report and Form 20-F (this Report)
serves as the Annual Report and Accounts in accordance with UK
requirements and as the Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the
US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the year ended
December 31, 2014, for Royal Dutch S hell plc (the Company) and its
subsidiaries (collectively referre d to as Shell). This Report presents the
Consolidated Financial State ments of Shell (pages 106-141), the
Parent Company Financial Statem ents of Shell (pages 162-170) and
the Financial Statements of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust
(pages 174-178). Cross referenc es to Form 20-F are set out on
pages 2-3 of this Report.
Financial reporting terms used in this Report are in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The Consolidated
Financial Statements comprise the financial statements of the Company
and its subsidiaries. “Subsidiaries” and “Shell subsidiaries” refer to
those entities over which the Company has control, either directly or
indirectly. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell
has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint
operations” respectively, and entities over which Shell has significant
influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as
“associates”.
In addition to the term “Shell”, in this Report “we”, “us” and “our” are
also used to refer to the Company and its subsidiaries in general or to
those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful
purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. The
term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/
or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or
unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party
interests.
Except as otherwise specified, the figures shown in the tables in this
Report are in respect of subsidiaries only, without deduction of any
non-controlling interest. However, the term “Shell share” is used for
convenience to refer to the volumes of hydrocarbons that are
produced, processed or sold through subsidiaries, joint ventures and
associates. All of a subsidiary’s production, processing or sales
volumes (including the share of joint operations) are included in the
Shell share, even if Shell owns less than 100% of the subsidiary. In the
case of joint ventures and associates, however, Shell-share figures are
limited only to Shell’s entitlement. In all cases, royalty payments in kind
are deducted from the Shell share.
The financial statements contained in this Report have been prepared
in accordance with the provisi ons of the Companies Act 2006 and
with IFRS as adopted by the European Union. As applied to the
financial statements, there are no material differences from IFRS as
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB);
therefore, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with IFRS as issued by the IASB. IFRS as defined above includes
interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee.
Except as otherwise noted, the figures shown in this Report are stated
in US dollars. As used herein all references to “dollars” or “$” are to
the US currency.
This Report contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of
the US Private Securities Litigatio n Reform Act of 1995) concerning the
financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All
statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be
deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s
current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or
events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these
statements. Forward-looking state ments include, among other things,
statements concerning the potential exposure of Shell to market risks
and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs,
estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-
looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such
as “anticipate”, “believe”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “goals”,
“intend”, “may”, “objectives”, “outl ook”, “plan”, “probably”, “project”,
“risks”, “schedule”, “seek”, “should”, “target”, “will” and similar terms
a n dp h r a s e s .T h e r ea r ean u m b e ro ff a c t o r st h a tc o u l da f f e c tt h ef u t u r e
operations of Shell and could cause those results to differ materially
from those expressed in the forward-lo oking statements included in this
Report, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil
and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products;
(c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves
estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition;
(g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the
identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets,
and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the
risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to
international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory
developments including regulatory measures addressing climate
change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various
countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of
expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with
governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of
projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and
(m) changes in trading conditions. Also see “Risk factors” for additional
risks and further discussion. All forward-looking statements contained in
this Report are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary
statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not
place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-
looking statement speaks only as of the date of this Report. Neither the
Company nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to
publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of
new information, future events or other information. In light of these
risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or
inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this Report.
This Report contains references to Shell’s website and to the Shell
Sustainability Report. These references are for the readers’ convenience
only. Shell is not incorporating by reference any information posted on
www.shell.com or in the Shel l Sustainability Report.
DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY
Documents concerning the Company, or its predecessors for reporting
purposes, which are referred to in this Report have been filed with the
SEC and may be examined and copied at the public reference facility
maintained by the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580,
Washington, DC 20549, USA. For further information on the
operation of the public reference room and the copy charges, call the
SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. All of the SEC filings made electronically by
Shell are available to the public on the SEC website at www.sec.gov
(commission file number 001-32575). T his Report is also available,
free of charge, at www.shell.com/annualreport or at the offices of
Shell in The Hague, the Netherlands and London, United Kingdom.
Copies of this Report also may be obtained, free of charge, by mail.

06 STRATEGIC REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
The energy landscape has fundamentally transformed in the nearly nine
years that I have served as Chairman.
Technological advances have enabled a surge in gas and oil
production from deep beneath the ocean and unlocked important new
shale resources over the last few years, for example.
Shell plans to continue to invest in innovative technology, talented
people and the development of new energy sources that will be vital to
meet rising long-term demand, while limiting carbon emissions.
But the short-term outlook for energy markets is uncertain.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimates that the world
economy grew by 3.3% in 2014, unchanged from 2013. In January
2015, the IMF revised its forecast for 2015 down from 3.8% to 3.5%,
pointing to concerns over the Russian and eurozone economies,
combined with slowing growth in China.
Concerns over economic growth, c oupled with buoyant global oil
production, drove a decline in crude oil prices during the second half
of 2014, ending a three-year spell of relatively high prices. Although
the Brent crude oil price ave raged $99 per barrel in 2014, down
from $109 in 2013, it ended the year at $55.
Shell will continue to look carefully at how and where to allocate
capital in an economic environment that remains fragile.
A sustained period of low oil prices could, of course, challenge the
economics of some of our planned projects and make them less
attractive. But we must continue to take a long-term view in a world
where energy demand continues to rise.
ROBUST STRATEGY
In 2014, our steps to improve capital discipline helped deliver solid
returns to shareholders. We delivered strong cash flow for the year
and also completed our programme of divesting some parts of our
portfolio ahead of schedule and before oil prices fell in the second half
of the year.
Our strong balance sheet allows us to continue to invest, despite short-
term price volatility, while our emphasis on employing innovative
technologies will help make our new projects competitive sources of
supply.
Many new energy resources will be needed in the longer term. Global
primary energy demand could grow by 37% from 2012 to 2040,
according to the International Energy Agency (IEA).
The IEA expects renewable energy to meet an increasing share of
global energy needs. But its central s cenario, which takes into account
existing government commitments and plans, points to a 14% rise in oil
consumption and a 55% rise in gas consumption by 2040.
Gas will be increasingly in demand partly because of the important
role it can play in reducing carbon emissions when replacing coal,
particularly in power plants.
Becoming the most competitive and innovative gas supplier has been a
clear strategic goal for Shell throughout my time as Chairman,
especially in liquefied natural gas (LNG), which is now central to the
global trade in gas. Shell has evolved from being predominantly an oil
producer to a company that produces more gas than oil.
We are building a large floating LNG production facility, called
Prelude, which will help access gas resources in remote waters.
Prelude is one example of the technological advances we are making
to help meet future demand.
Our deep-water technology is another. It enabled us to start production
in 2014 at major projects in the Gulf of Mexico and off the coasts of
Malaysia and Nigeria.
Through our joint venture Raízen in Brazil, we are also now one of the
world’s largest producers of low-carbon biofuel.
CLIMATE CHANGE
It is clear that new technologies will be needed to tackle climate
change effectively. For example, carbon capture and storage (CCS)
technology to store carbon dioxide (CO
2) safely underground could
substantially reduce the amount of CO 2 emitted in energy production at
lower cost than many other technologies.
But widespread government and industry support is needed to ensure
that enough CCS plants are built around the world to make a
substantial contribution to the wider drive to reduce CO
2.
All sectors of society must work together to combat climate change
effectively. One vital and pressing step is to set up effective systems for
putting a price on carbon emissions. It is an efficient way to encourage
companies to change their activities in ways that have a deep and
lasting impact on emissions.
I was encouraged to hear at the United Nations (UN) Climate Summit
in New York in September 2014 that the need for effective carbon
pricing systems had broad support. I hope that significant progress can
be made on this at the crucial UN Climate Change Conference in
Paris in December 2015.
INNOVATION AND INNOVATORS
I have had the privilege of working with many talented, creative and
forward-thinking people at Shell. Their focus on developing innovative
ways to produce and refine new energy resources should benefit our
shareholders and customers in the years ahead by keeping our
products competitive in any economic environment.
Perhaps the best example is the Pearl gas-to-liquids (GTL) complex in
Qatar. The final decision to go ahead with the project was taken at
the first Board meeting I chaired i n 2006. Back then, there was some
scepticism, outside Shell at least, about the project’s ambitious scope
and viability as a major investment.
We proved the sceptics wrong. Today we know that a GTL project on
this scale, it is the largest such plant in the world, does work.
Watching Pearl develop and seeing its products now benefiting
customers around the world has been one of the most rewarding
experiences during my time at Shell.
Pearl’s success underscores the importance of continuing our strategy
of making disciplined investments in key projects and new
technologies. This is how we can compete more effectively on the
global stage as we continue to create value for our customers, partners
and investors.
JormaO l l i l a
Chairman

STRATEGIC REPORT 07
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S
REVIEW
After my first year as Chief Executive Officer, I am pleased to see that
we are delivering on our three key priorities of improved financial
performance, enhanced capital efficiency and continued strong project
delivery.
We have come a long way. Shell’s earnings on a current cost of
supplies basis attributable to shareholders improved in 2014
compared with 2013, largely thanks to o ur prudent investment strategy
and delivery of major new projects around the world.
We achieved these better results despite the fall in oil prices during the
second half of 2014, a decline mainly caused by plentiful supply and
weak global demand.
Our improved operational performance, prudent spending and sales of
assets that are not central to our strategy helped us enter this period of
low oil prices from a position of strength.
But there is still work to be done. I want to see more competitive
performance across Shell in 2015 and beyond.
We continued our focus on safety, but sadly five people working for
Shell in 2014 lost their lives. There was also an explosion at our
Moerdijk chemical plant in the Netherlands, but thankfully it caused no
serious injuries.
Tragically, we lost four colleagues and eight of their family members in
the Malaysia Airlines disaster over Ukraine in July. That was a deeply
saddening experience for all.
2014 MILESTONES
For 2014, our earnings on a current cost of supplies basis attributable to
shareholders were $19 billion, which included impairments of $5 billion
and gains on divestments of $2 billion, compared with $17 billion in
2013, which included impairments of $4 billion. Net cash flow from
operating activities rose to $45 billion from $40 billion in 2013.
We reduced our capital investm ent from $46 billion in 2013 to
$37 billion.
Underlining our ongoing commitment to shareholder returns, we
distributed $12 billion to shareholders in dividends, including those
taken as shares under our Scrip Dividend Programme, and spent
$3 billion on share repurchas es in 2014. This compares with
$11 billion of dividends and $5 bi llion of share repurchases in 2013.
Our Upstream earnings rose fro m 2013 to 2014, reflecting improved
operational performance and the start of production from new deep-
water projects. These included Gumusut-Kakap in Malaysia, which is
expected to produce up to 135 thousand barrels per day of oil
equivalent (boe/d) and the 40 t housand boe/d Bonga North West
development off the coast of Nigeria. We also began production from
the Cardamom and Olympus platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. However,
production from new projects was more than offset by the expiry of a
licence in Abu Dhabi and the impact of asset sales. Our oil and gas
production averaged 3.1 millio n boe/d in 2014, 4% less than in 2013.
The integration of the Repsol liquefied natural gas (LNG) businesses
acquired in January helped boost our LNG sales to 24 million tonnes,
up 22% on 2013.
It was a good year for our exploration drive, with 10 notable
discoveries. The resources we uncovered – including in the USA,
Gabon and Malaysia – could be important sources of gas and oil for
decades to come.
We continued to streamline our Downstream operations, selling most
of our businesses in Australia and Italy, for example. While there is
some growth potential in businesses such as chemicals, lubricants and
in China, we continue to look for opportunities to reduce our costs and
optimise our Downstream portfolio.
PRUDENT PATH OF GROWTH
The fall in oil prices in 2014 was part of the volatility our industry has
always faced. But it underlined the importance of being selective in our
investments and keeping a tight grip on costs.
Divestments, together with the initial public offering in Shell Midstream
Partners, L.P., generated $15 billion in proceeds in 2014. They
included shale oil and gas interests in North America and downstream
businesses in several countries, meeting our target for 2014-15 well
ahead of schedule. We plan to continue to divest assets in 2015.
To improve returns and control costs during this period of low prices,
we have also reduced our potential spending on organic growth by
$15 billion for 2015-2017. For example , together with our partners
Qatar Petroleum, we have decided not to proceed with the proposed
Al Karaana petrochemicals project in Qatar because it is too costly in
the current environment.
We expect organic capital investment to be lower in 2015 than 2014
levels of around $35 billion. But we want to preserve our growth to
ensure we continue to generate cash flow and dividends for our
shareholders. That is why we are still planning to invest in
economically-sound projects this year in key growth areas, such as
deep water and LNG.
Clearly, we do not want to miss future growth opportunities simply
because they may seem unaffordable in the low oil price world we see
today.
However, in this period of economic uncertainty, we also need to
remain cautious and are prepared to curb spending further if
warranted by the evolving market outlook.
STRONG LONG-TERM DEMAND
In the long term, we expect demand for energy to continue to rise as
populations and prosperity increase. Billions of people across the
developing world need better access to energy to improve their lives.
We expect the global energy supply mix to evolve significantly in the
decades ahead with gas, the cleanest-burning fossil fuel, becoming
more widely used for power generation. While we expect renewables
such as wind, solar and biofuels to play an increasing role, oil and
gas will be vital to meet the considerable expected increase in energy
demand.
At the same time, the need to tackle climate change requires effective
policies that help meet the world’s energy needs while significantly
reducing carbon dioxide (CO
2) emissions.
Facilities to capture and store CO 2 s h o u l db eak e yp a r to ft h eg l o b a l
solution. Our Quest project to capture and safely store CO 2 from a
Canadian oil sands facility is ex pected to be completed in 2015. We
are also planning a carbon capture and storage (CCS) facility at the
Peterhead gas-fired power plant in the UK.

08 STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
Effective carbon-pricing systems are needed. They can drive a shift
from coal- to gas-fired power generation, encourage greater energy
efficiency and create the frameworks for the widespread use of CCS.
In the shorter term, the world economy is going through a period of
relatively slow growth. There is no change in the long-term outlook for
energy demand, however, as the global population rises and living
standards improve.
We will continue our strategy of strengthening our position as a leader
in the oil and gas industry while supplying energy in a responsible
way.
By stepping up our drive to improve our financial performance and
continuing to invest in good projects and opportunities, we are
working hard to add more value for our shareholders.
This may mean making tough choices during a testing time for the
energy industry. But it will help Shell deliver where it matters – the
bottom line. I am determined that we can and will combine the
disciplined pursuit of efficiency today with a vision of long-term
sustainability which will secure our leadership role in the decades to
come.
Ben van Beurden
Chief Executive Officer

STRATEGIC REPORT 09
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 BUSINESS OVERVIEW
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
HISTORY
From 1907 until 2005, Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and The
“Shell” Transport and Trading Company, p.l.c. were the two public
parent companies of a group of companies known collectively as the
“Royal Dutch/Shell Group”. Operating activities were conducted
through the subsidiaries of these parent companies. In 2005, Royal
Dutch Shell plc became the single parent company of Royal Dutch
Petroleum Company and of The “Shell” Transport and Trading
Company, p.l.c., now The Shell Transport and Trading Company
Limited.
Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Company) is a public limited company
registered in England and Wales and headquartered in The Hague,
the Netherlands.
ACTIVITIES
Shell is one of the world’s largest independent oil and gas companies
in terms of market capitalisation, operating cash flow and production.
We aim for strong operational performance and productive
investments around the world.
We explore for oil and gas worldwide, both from conventional fields
and from sources such as tight rock, shale and coal formations.
We work to develop new oil and gas supplies from major fields. For
example, in 2014 we began produc tion from the Gumusut-Kakap
deep-water project in Malaysia, the Mars B and Cardamom
developments in the deep-water Gulf of Mexico, USA, and the Bonga
N o r t hW e s tp r o j e c to f ft h ec o a s to fN i g e r i a .W ea l s oi n v e s ti n
expanding our integrated gas business. For example, in January
2014, we acquired a part of Repsol S.A .’s liquefied natural gas (LNG)
portfolio, including supply positions in Peru and Trinidad and Tobago.
Our portfolio of refineries and che mical plants enables us to capture
v a l u ef r o mt h eo i la n dg a st h a tw ep r o d u c e .F u r t h e r m o r e ,w ea r ea
leading biofuel producer and fuel retailer in Brazil, through our Raízen
joint venture. We have a strong retail position not only in the major
industrialised countries, but also in developing countries. The distinctive
Shell pecten, (a trademark in use since the early part of the 20th
century), and trademarks in which th e word Shell appears, help raise
the profile of our brand globally. A st rong patent portfolio underlies the
technology that we employ in our various businesses. In total, Shell has
more than 15,000 granted patents and pending patent applications.
GENERATING POWER
PRODUCING BIOFUELS
DEVELOPING 
FIELDS
PRODUCING 
OIL AND GASEXTRACTING
BITUMEN
EXPLORING FOR 
OIL AND GAS: 
ONSHORE AND 
OFFSHORE
PRODUCING 
PETROCHEMICALS
REFINING OIL INTO 
FUELS AND LUBRICANTS
CONVERTING GAS TO 
LIQUID PRODUCTS (GTL)
LIQUEFYING GAS 
BY COOLING (LNG) 
UPGRADING
BITUMEN
SHIPPING 
AND TRADING
SUPPLY AND 
DISTRIBUTION
REGASIFYING (LNG)

10 STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS OVERVIEW SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
BUSINESS OVERVIEW CONTINUED
BUSINESSES AND ORGANISATION
Upstrea m International
Our Upstream International business manages Shell’s Upstream
activities outside the Americas. It explores for and recovers crude oil,
natural gas and natural gas liquids, transports oil and gas, and
operates the upstream and midstream infrastructure necessary to deliver
oil and gas to market. Upstream International also manages the LNG
and GTL businesses outside the Americas, and markets and trades
natural gas, including LNG, outside the Americas. It manages its
operations primarily by line of business, with this structure overlaying
country organisations. This organisation is supported by activities such
as Exploration and New Business Development.
Upstrea m Americas
Our Upstream Americas business manages Shell’s Upstream activities
in North and South America. It explores for and recovers crude oil,
natural gas and natural gas liquids, transports oil and gas and
operates the upstream and midstream infrastructure necessary to deliver
oil and gas to market. Upstream Americas also extracts bitumen from
oil sands that is converted into synthetic crude oil. It manages the LNG
business in the Americas, including assets in Peru and Trinidad and
Tobago acquired in 2014. It also ma rkets and trades natural gas in
the Americas. Additionally, it manages the US-based wind business. It
manages its operations by line of business, supported by activities such
as Exploration and New Business Development.
Downstrea m
Our Downstream business manages Shell’s refining and marketing
activities for oil products and chemicals. These activities are organised
into globally managed classes of business. Refining includes
manufacturing, supply and shipping of crude oil. Marketing sells a
range of products including fuels, lubricants, bitumen and liquefied
petroleum gas (LPG) for home, transport and industrial use. Chemicals
produces and markets petrochemicals for industrial customers,
including the raw materials for plastics, coatings and detergents.
Downstream also trades Shell’s hydrocarbons and other energy-related
products, supplies the Downstream businesses and provides shipping
services. Additionally, Downstream oversees Shell’s interests in
alternative energy (including biofuels but excluding wind).
Projects & Tech nology
Our Projects & Technology organisation manages the delivery of
Shell’s major projects and drives research and innovation to create
technology solutions. It provides technical services and technology
capability covering both Upstream and Downstream activities. It is also
responsible for providing functional leadership across Shell in the areas
of safety and environment, contracting and procurement, and for all
wells activities and CO
2 management.
SEGMENTAL REPORTING
Our reporting segments are Upstream, Downstream and Corporate.
Upstream combines the operating segments Upstream International and
Upstream Americas. Upstream and Downstream earnings include their
respective elements of Projects & Technology and of trading activities.
Corporate comprises Shell’s holdings and treasury organisation,
including its self-insurance activities as well as its headquarters and
central functions. See Note 2 to the “Consolidated Financial
Statements”.
REVENUE BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
(INCLUDING INTER-SEGMENT SALES) $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Upstream
Third parties 45,240 47,357 43,431
Inter-segment 47,059 45,512 51,119
Total 92,299 92,869 94,550
Downstream
Third parties 375,752 403,725 423,638
Inter-segment 2,294 702 772
Total 378,046 404,427 424,410
Corporate
Third parties 113 153 84
Total 113 153 84
REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA
(EXCLUDING INTER-SEGMENT SALES) $ MILLION
2014 % 2013 % 2012 %
Europe 154,709 36.7 175,584 38.9 184,223 39.4
Asia, Oceania,
Africa 149,869 35.6 157,673 34.9 156,310 33.5
USA 70,813 16.8 72,552 16.1 91,571 19.6
Other Americas 45,714 10.9 45,426 10.1 35,049 7.5
Total 421,105 100.0 451,235 100.0 467,153 100.0
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Innovative technology provides ways for Shell to stand apart from its
competitors. It helps our current businesses perform, and it makes future
businesses possible.
Since 2007, we have spent more to r esearch and develop innovative
technology than any other international oil and gas company. In
2014, research and development (R&D) expenses were $1,222
million, slightly down from $1,318 million in 2013 and
$1,307 million in 2012.
Such levels of investment in R&D enable us to advance technologies
that help us access new resources and better meet the needs of our
customers and partners. This includes: seismic processing and
visualisation software that reveal previously unnoticed geological
details; drilling-rig equipment that delivers wells more quickly and more
safely; oil-recovery methods that increase production from fields;
processes that refine crude oil and liquefy natural gas more efficiently;
as well as fuel and lubricant formulations that perform better.
As in 2014, in 2015 we continue to focus strongly on technologies
that support our various businesses and reduce the environmental
footprint of our operations and products.

STRATEGIC REPORT 11
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 RISK FACTORS
RISK FACTORS
The risks discussed below could have a material adverse effect
separately, or in combination, on our operational performance,
earnings, cash flows and financial condition. Accordingly, investors
should carefully consider these risks.
We are exposed to fluctuatingp r i c e sof crude oil, natural gas, oil
products andc h emicals.
Prices of crude oil, natural gas, oil products and chemicals are affected
by supply and demand, both globally and regionally. Moreover, prices
for oil and gas can move independently from each other. Factors that
influence supply and demand include operational issues, natural disasters,
weather, political instability, conflicts, economic conditions and actions by
major oil-producing countries. Price fluctuations could have a material
effect on our business, including on our cash flows and earnings. For
example, in a low oil and gas price environment, Shell would generate
less revenue from its Upstream production, and as a result some long-term
projects might become less profitable, or even incur losses. Additionally,
low oil and gas prices could result in the debooking of proved oil or gas
reserves, if they become uneconomic in this type of environment.
Prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices, or rising costs, could result in
projects being delayed or cancelled and/or in the impairment of some
assets. They may also impact our ability to maintain our long-term
investment programme. In a high oil and gas price environment, we could
experience sharp increases in costs, and under some production-sharing
contracts our entitlement to proved reserves would be reduced. Higher
prices could also reduce demand for our products which might result in
lower profitability, particularly in our Downstream business.
Our ability to deliver competitive returnsa ndp u r s u ec ommercial
opportunities depends in part on the robustness and, ultimately, the
accuracy of our price assumptions.
Shell reviews the oil and gas price assumptions it uses to evaluate
project decisions and commercial opportunities on a periodic basis.
We generally test projects and other opportunities against a long-term
price range of $70-110 per barrel for Brent crude oil and
$3.5-5.0 per million British thermal units for gas at the Henry Hub.
While we believe our current long-term price assumptions are prudent,
if such assumptions proved to be i ncorrect it could have a material
adverse effect on Shell. For near-term planning purposes, we stress
test the financial framework against a wider range of prices.
Our ability to achieve strategic objectives depends on how we react to
competitive forces.
We face competition in each of our businesses. While we seek to
differentiate our products, many of them are competing in commodity-
type markets. If we do not manage our expenses adequately, our cost
efficiency could deteriorate and our unit costs may increase. This in
turn could erode our competitive position. Increasingly, we compete
with government-run oil and gas companies, particularly in seeking
access to oil and gas resources. Today, these government-run
companies control vastly greater quantities of oil and gas resources
than the major, publicly held oil and gas companies. Government-run
entities have access to significant resources and may be motivated by
political or other factors in their business decisions, which may harm
our competitive position or hinder our access to desirable projects.
As our business model involves treasury and tradingr i s k s ,w ea r e
affected by the global macroeconomic environmenta sw e l la sfinancial
andc ommodity
market conditions.
Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are subject to differing
economic and financial market conditions throughout the world.
Political or economic instability affects such markets. Shell uses debt
instruments such as bonds and commercial paper to raise significant
amounts of capital. Should our access to debt markets become more
difficult, the potential impact on our liquidity could have an adverse
effect on our operations. Commodity trading is an important component
of our Upstream and Downstream businesses and is integrated with our
supply business. Treasury and trading risks include, among others,
exposure to movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and
commodity prices, counterparty default and various operational risks. As
a global company doing business in more than 70 countries, we are
exposed to changes in currency values and exchange controls. While
we undertake some currency hedging, we do not do so for all of our
activities. See Notes 6 and 19 to the “Consolidated Financial
Statements”. Shell has significant financial exposure to the euro and
could be materially affected by a significant change in its value or any
structural changes to the European Union (EU) or the European Economic
and Monetary Union affecting the euro. While we do not have
significant direct exposure to sovereign debt, it is possible that our
partners and customers may have exposure which could impair their
ability to meet their obligations to us. Therefore, a sovereign debt
downgrade or default could have a material adverse effect on Shell.
Our future hydrocarbon production depends on the delivery of large and
complex projects, as well as on our ability to replace proved oil andg a s
reserves.
We face numerous challenges in developing capital projects,
especially large ones. Challenges include uncertain geology, frontier
conditions, the existence and availability of necessary technology and
engineering resources, availability of skilled labour, project delays,
expiration of licences and potential cost overruns, as well as technical,
fiscal, regulatory, political and other conditions. These challenges are
particularly relevant in certain developing and emerging market
countries, such as Iraq and Kazakhstan, and in frontier areas, such as
the Arctic. Such potential obstacles may impair our delivery of these
projects, as well as our ability to fulfil related contractual commitments.
Future oil and gas production will depend on our access to new
proved reserves through exploration, negotiations with governments
and other owners of proved reserves and acquisitions, as well as
developing and applying new technologies and recovery processes to
existing fields and mines. Failure to replace proved reserves could
result in lower future production, cash flow and earnings.
In 2014, we have reduced our tight-gas and liquids-rich shale
portfolio. If future well results do not meet our expectations, there could
be additional asset sales and/or impairments.
OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
AVAILABLE FOR SALE MILLION BOE [A]
2014 2013 2012
Shell subsidiaries 895 850 825
Shell share of jointv entures and
associates 229 318 369
Total 1,124 1,168 1,194
[A] Natural gas volumes are converted to oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.
PROVED DEVELOPED AND UNDEVELOPED OIL
AND GAS RESERVES [A][B] (AT DECEMBER 31) MILLION BOE [C]
2014 2013 2012
Shell subsidiaries 10,181 10,835 9,873
Shell share of jointv entures and
associates 2,900 3,109 3,701
Total 13,081 13,944 13,574
Attributable to non-
controllingi nterest [D] 11 12 18
Attributable to Royal Dutch Shell
plc shareholders 13,070 13,932 13,556
[A] We manage our total proved reserves base without distinguishing between proved reserves
from subsidiaries and those from joint ventures and associates.
[B] Includes proved reserves associated with future production that will be consumed in operations.
[C] Natural gas volumes are converted to oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.
[D] Proved reserves attributable to non-con trolling interest in Shell subsidiaries.

12 STRATEGIC REPORT
RISK FACTORS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
RISK FACTORS CONTINUED
An erosion of our business reputation would have a negative impact on
our brand, our ability to secure new resources ando u rl i c ence to operate.
Shell is one of the world’s leading energy brands, and its brand and
reputation are important assets. The Shell General Business Principles
(Principles) govern how Shell and its individual companies conduct
their affairs, and the Shell Code of Conduct (Code) instructs employees
and contractors on how to behave in line with the Principles. Our
challenge is to ensure that all employees and contractors, more than
100,000 in total, comply with thes e Principles and Code. Failure –
real or perceived – to follow these Principles, or other real or
perceived failures of governance or regulatory compliance, could harm
our reputation. This could impact our licence to operate, damage our
brand, harm our ability to secure new resources and limit our ability to
access the capital markets. Many other factors may impact our
reputation, including those discussed in several of the other risk factors.
Our future performance depends on the successful developmenta nd
deploymento fn ew technologies.
Technology and innovation are essential to Shell to meet the world’s
energy demands in a competitive way. If we do not develop the right
technology, do not have access to it or do not deploy it effectively, the
delivery of our strategy and our licence to operate may be adversely
affected. We operate in environments where the most advanced
technologies are needed. While these technologies are regarded as safe
for the environment with today’s knowledge, there is always the possibility
of unknown or unforeseeable environmental impacts that could harm our
reputation, licence to operate or expose us to litigation or sanctions.
Risingc l imate change concerns could lead to additional regulatory
measures that may result in project delays andh i g h e rc o s t s .
In the future, in order to help meet the world’s energy demand, we
expect our production to rise and more of our production to come from
higher energy-intensive sources than at present. Therefore, it is
expected that both the CO
2 intensity of our production, as well as our
absolute Upstream CO 2 emissions, will increase as our business
grows. Examples of such developments are our in-situ Peace River
project and our oil sands activities in Canada. Additionally, as
production from Iraq increases, we expect that CO
2 emissions from
flaring will rise as long as no gas gathering systems are in place. We
continue to work with our partners to find ways to capture the gas that
is flared. Over time, we expect that a growing share of our CO
2
emissions will be subject to regulation and result in increasing our
costs. Furthermore, continued and increased attention to climate
change, including activities by non-governmental and political
organisations, as well as more interest by the broader public, is likely
to lead to additional regulations designed to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions. If we are unable to find economically viable, as well as
publicly acceptable, solutions that reduce our CO
2 emissions for new
and existing projects or products, we may experience additional costs,
delayed projects, reduced production and reduced demand for
hydrocarbons.
The nature of our operations exposes the communities in which we work
andu st oaw i d er ange of health, safety, security ande nvironmentr i s k s .
The health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) risks to which we
are potentially exposed cover a wide spectrum, given the geographic
range, operational diversity and technical complexity of Shell’s daily
operations. We have operations, including oil and gas production,
transport and shipping of hydrocarbons, and refining, in difficult
geographies or climate zones, as well as environmentally sensitive
regions, such as the Arctic or maritime environments, especially in
deep water. These and other operations expose the communities in
which we work and us to the risk, among others, of major process
safety incidents, effects of natural disasters, earth tremors, social unrest,
personal health and safety lapses, and crime. If a major HSSE risk
materialises, such as an explosion or hydrocarbon spill, this could
result in injuries, loss of life, environmental harm, disruption to business
activities and, depending on their cause and severity, material
damage to our reputation, exclusion from bidding on mineral rights
and eventually loss of licence to operate. In certain circumstances,
liability could be imposed without regard to Shell’s fault in the matter.
Requirements governing HSSE matters often change and are likely to
become more stringent over time. The operator could be asked to
adjust its future production plan, as we have seen in the Netherlands,
impacting production and costs. We could incur significant additional
costs in the future complying with such requirements or as a result of
violations of, or liabilities under, HSSE laws and regulations, such as
fines, penalties, clean-up costs and third-party claims.
Shell mainly self-insures its risk exposures.
Shell insurance subsidiaries provide hazard insurance coverage to
Shell entities. While from time to time the insurance subsidiaries may
seek reinsurance for some of their risk exposures, such reinsurance
would not provide any material coverage in the event of an incident
like BP Deepwater Horizon. Similarly, in the event of a material
environmental incident, there would be no material proceeds available
from third-party insurance companies to meet Shell’s obligations.
A further erosion of the business ando p e r a t inge nvironmenti n Nigeria
would adversely impact Shell.
In our Nigerian operations we face various risks and adverse
conditions, some of which deteriorated during 2014. These risks and
conditions include: security issues surrounding the safety of our people,
host communities and operations; sabotage and theft; our ability to
enforce existing contractual rights; litigation; limited infrastructure;
potential legislation that could increase our taxes or costs of
operations; the impact of lower oil and gas prices on the government
budget; and regional instability created by militant activities. The
Nigerian government is contemplating new legislation to govern the
p e t r o l e u mi n d u s t r yw h i c h ,i fp a s s e di n t ol a w ,w o u l dl i k e l yh a v ea
significant adverse impact on Shell’s existing and future activities in that
country.
We operate inm ore than 70 countries that have differingd e g r e e sof
political, legal and fiscal stability. This exposes us to a wide range of
political developments that could result in chang e st ol a w sa
nd
regulations. In addition,S h e l landi t sj o intv entures and associates face
the risk of litigation and disputes worldwide.
Developments in politics, laws and regulations can – and do – affect
our operations. Potential developments include: forced divestment of
assets; expropriation of property; cancellation or forced renegotiation
of contract rights; additional taxes including windfall taxes, restrictions
on deductions and retroactive tax claims; trade controls; local content
requirements; foreign exchange controls; and changing environmental
regulations and disclosure requirements. In our Upstream activities
these developments can and do affect land tenure, re-writing of leases,
entitlement to produced hydrocarbons, production rates, royalties and
pricing. Parts of our Downstream activities are subject to price controls
in some countries. From time to time, cultural and political factors play
a role in unprecedented and unanticipated judicial outcomes that
could adversely affect Shell. If we do not comply with policies and
regulations, this may result in regulatory investigations, litigation and
ultimately sanctions.
Certain governments and regulatory bodies have, in the opinion of
Shell, exceeded their constitutional authority by attempting unilaterally
to amend or cancel existing agreements or arrangements; by failing to
honour existing contractual commitments; and by seeking to adjudicate
disputes between private litigants. Additionally, certain governments
have adopted laws and regulations that could potentially force us to
violate other countries’ laws and regulations, thus potentially subjecting
us to both criminal and civil sanctions.

STRATEGIC REPORT 13
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 RISK FACTORS
Our operations expose us to social instability, civil unrest, terrorism,
piracy, acts of war andr i s k sof pandemic diseases that could have an
adverse impact on our business.
As seen in recent years in Nigeria, north Africa and the Middle East,
social and civil unrest, both in the countries in which we operate and
elsewhere, can – and does – affect Shell. Such potential developments
that could impact our business include acts of political or economic
terrorism, acts of piracy on the high seas, conflicts including war, civil
unrest (including disruptions by non-governmental and political
organisations), and local security concerns that threaten the safe
operation of our facilities and transport of our products. The risks of
pandemic diseases, such as Ebola, can impact our operations directly
and indirectly. If such risks materialise, they could result in injuries and
disruption to business activities.
We rely heavily on information technology systems for our operations.
The operation of many of our business processes depends on the
availability of information technolo gy (IT) systems. Our IT systems are
increasingly concentrated in terms of geography, number of systems,
and key contractors supporting the delivery of IT services. Shell, like
many other multinational companies, is the target of attempts to gain
unauthorised access through the internet to our IT systems, including
more sophisticated and coordinated attempts often referred to as
advanced persistent threats. Shell seeks to detect and investigate all
such security incidents, aiming to prevent their recurrence. Disruption of
critical IT services, or breaches of information security, could have
adverse consequences for Shell.
We have substantial pension commitments, whose fundingi ss u b j e c tt o
capital market risks.
Liabilities associated with defined benefit plans can be significant, as
can the cash funding of such plans; both depend on various
assumptions. Volatility in capital markets, and the resulting
consequences for investment performance and interest rates, may result
in significant changes to the funding level of future liabilities. In case of
a shortfall, Shell might be required to make substantial cash
contributions, depending on the applicable local regulations. See
Note 17 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
The estimation of proved oil and gas reserves involves subjective
judgements based on available information and the application
of
complex rules, so subsequentd o wnward adjustments are possible.
The estimation of proved oil and gas reserves involves subjective
judgements and determinations based on available geological,
technical, contractual and economic information. Estimates may change
because of new information from production or drilling activities, or
changes in economic factors, including changes in the price of oil or gas
and changes in the taxation or regulatory policies of host governments or
other events. Estimates may also be altered by acquisitions and
divestments, new discoveries, and extensions of existing fields and
mines, as well as the application of improved recovery techniques.
Published proved oil and gas reserves estimates may also be subject to
correction due to errors in the application of published rules and changes
in guidance. Any downward adjustment would indicate lower future
production volumes and may lead to impairment of some assets.
Manyo f our major projects ando p e r a t i onsa r ec onducted in joint
arrangements or associates. This may reduce our degree of control, as
well as our ability to identifya nd manage risks.
I nc a s e sw h e r ew ea r en o tt h eo p e r a t o rw eh a v el i m i t e di n f l u e n c eo v e r ,
and control of, the behaviour, perfo rmance and costs of operation of
such joint arrangements or associates. Despite not having control, we
could still be exposed to the risks associated with these operations,
including reputational, litigation (where joint and several liability may
apply) and government sanction risks. For example, our partners or
members of a joint arrangement or an associate (particularly local
partners in developing countries) may not be able to meet their
financial or other obligations to the projects, threatening the viability of
a given project.
Violationso f antitrust andc ompetition law carry fines ande x p o s eu s
and/or our employees to criminal sanctionsa nd civil suits.
Antitrust and competition laws apply t o Shell and its joint ventures and
associates in the vast majority of countries in which we do business. Shell
and its joint ventures and associates have been fined for violations of
antitrust and competition law. These include a number of fines in the past
by the European Commission Directorate-General for Competition (DG
COMP). Due to the DG COMP’s fining guidelines, any future conviction
of Shell and its joint ventures or associates for violation of EU competition
law could result in significantly larger fines. Violation of antitrust laws is a
criminal offence in many countries, and individuals can be either
imprisoned or fined. Furthermore, it is now common for persons or
corporations allegedly injured by antitrust violations to sue for damages.
Violationso f an
ti-bribery andc o r r u p t i on law anda nti-money laundering
law carry fines ande x p o s eu sand/or our employees to criminal
sanctionsa nd civil suits.
In 2010, Shell agreed to a Deferred P rosecution Agree ment (DPA) with
the US Department of Justice (DOJ) for violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (FCPA), which arose in connection with its use of the
freight-forwarding firm Panalp ina. In November 2013, following
Shell’s fulfilment of the terms of the DPA, the criminal charges filed in
connection with the DPA were dismissed. Shell’s ethics and
compliance programme was enhanced during the DPA and remains in
full force and effect. Any violations of the FCPA or other relevant anti-
bribery and corruption legislation or anti-money laundering legislation
could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Violationso f data protection laws carry fines ande x p o s eu sand/or our
employees to criminal sanctionsa nd civil suits.
Data protection laws apply to Shell and its joint ventures and
associates in the vast majority of countries in which we do business.
Over 100 countries have data protection laws and regulations.
Additionally, the impending EU Data Privacy Regulation proposes to
increase penalties up to a maximum of 5% of global annual turnover
for breach of the regulation. Non-compliance with data protection
laws could expose Shell to regulatory investigations, which may result
in fines and penalties. Shell could also be subject to litigation from
persons or corporations allegedly affected by data protection
violations. Violation of data protection laws is a criminal offence in
some countries, and individuals can be either imprisoned or fined.

14 STRATEGIC REPORT
RISK FACTORS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
RISK FACTORS CONTINUED
Violationso f trade controls, includings anctions, expose us ando u r
employees to criminal sanctionsa nd civil suits.
We use “trade controls” as an umbrella term for various national and
international laws designed to regulate the movement of items across
national boundaries and restrict or prohibit trade and other dealings
with certain parties. The number and breadth of trade controls faced
by Shell continues to expand. For example, the EU and the USA
continue to impose restrictions and prohibitions on certain transactions
involving Iran and Syria. Additional trade controls directed at defined
oil and gas activities in Russia were imposed by the EU and the USA in
2014. In addition to the significant trade control programmes
administered by the EU and the USA, many other nations are also
adopting such programmes. Any violation of one or more trade control
regimes may lead to significant penalties or prosecution of Shell or its
employees.
We execute acquisitionsa ndd i v e s tments in the pursuit of our strategy. A
number of risks impact the success of such acquisitionsa ndd i v e s tments.
Acquisitions may not succeed due to reasons such as difficulties in
integrating activities and realising synergies, outcomes varying from
key assumptions, host governments reacting or responding in a
different manner from that envisaged, or liabilities and costs being
underestimated. Any of these would reduce our ability to realise the
expected benefits. We may not be able to successfully divest non-core
assets at acceptable prices, resulting in increased pressure on our cash
position. In the case of divestments, we may be held liable for past
acts, failures to act or liabilities that are different from those foreseen.
We may also face liabilities if a purchaser fails to honour all of its
commitments.
I n v e s t o r ss h o u l da l s oc o n s i d e rt h ef o l l o w i n g ,w h i c hm i g h tl i m i t
shareholder remedies.
The Company ’ sA r t i c l e sof Association determine the jurisdictionf or
shareholder disputes. This might limit shareholder remedies.
Our Articles of Association generally require that all disputes between
our shareholders in such capacity and the Company or our subsidiaries
(or our Directors or former Directors), or between the Company and our
Directors or former Directors, be exclusively resolved by arbitration in
The Hague, the Netherlands, under the Rules of Arbitration of the
International Chamber of Commerce. Our Articles of Association also
provide that, if this provision is for any reason determined to be invalid
or unenforceable, the dispute may only be brought to the courts of
England and Wales. Accordingly, the ability of shareholders to obtain
monetary or other relief, including in respect of securities law claims,
may be determined in accordance with these provisions. See
“Corporate governance”.

STRATEGIC REPORT 15
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK
STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK
STRATEGY
Our strategy seeks to reinforce our position as a leader in the oil and
gas industry, while helping to meet global energy demand in a
responsible way. We aim to balance growth with returns, by growing
our cash flow and delivering competitive returns through economic
cycles, to finance a competitive dividend and fund investment for future
growth. Safety and environmental and social responsibility are at the
heart of our activities.
Intense competition exists for access to upstream resources and to new
downstream markets. But we believe that our technology, project
delivery capability and operational excellence will remain key
differentiators for our businesses. We expect over 80% of our capital
investment in 2015 to be in our Upstream businesses.
In Upstream, we focus on exploration for new liquids and natural gas
reserves and on developing major new projects where our technology
and know-how add value to the resources holders.
In Downstream, we focus on turning crude oil into a range of refined
p r o d u c t s ,w h i c ha r em o v e da n dm a r k e t e da r o u n dt h ew o r l df o r
domestic, industrial and transport use. In addition, we produce and
sell petrochemicals for industrial use worldwide.
We focus on a series of strategic themes, each requiring distinctive
technologies and risk management:
/H18546Our upstream and downstream “engines” are strongly cash-
generative, mature businesses, which will underpin our financial
performance to at least the end of this decade. We only make
investments in selective growth positions and apply Shell’s distinctive
technology and operating performance to extend the productive lives
of our assets and to enhance their profitability.
/H18546Our growth priorities follow two strategic themes: integrated gas
and deep water. These will provide our medium-term growth and we
expect them to become core engines in the future. We utilise Shell’s
technological know-how and global scale to unlock highly
competitive resources positions.
/H18546Our longer-term strategic themes are “resource plays” such as shale
oil and gas as well as “future opportunities”, including the Arctic,
Iraq, Kazakhstan, Nigeria and heavy oil, where we believe large
reserves positions could potentially become available, with the pace
of development driven by market and local operating conditions, as
well as the regulatory environment.
Meeting the growing demand for energy worldwide in ways that
minimise environmental and social impact is a major challenge for the
global energy industry. We aim to improve energy efficiency in our
own operations, support customers in managing their energy demands
and continue to research and develop technologies that increase
efficiency and reduce emissions in liquids and natural gas production.
Our commitment to technology and innovation continues to be at the
core of our strategy. As energy pr ojects become more complex and
more technically demanding, we believe our engineering expertise will
be a deciding factor in the growth of our businesses. Our key strengths
include the development and application of technology, the financial
and project-management skills that allow us to deliver large field
development projects, and the management of integrated value chains.
We aim to leverage our diverse and global business portfolio and
customer-focused businesses bui lt around the strength of the Shell
brand.
OUTLOOK
We continuously seek to improve our operating performance, with an
emphasis on health, safety and envi ronment, asset performance and
operating costs. For 2015, we will co ntinue to focus on the three key
priorities set out in 2014: improving our financial performance,
enhancing our capital efficiency and continuing our focus on project
delivery.
In 2015, we expect organic capital investment to be lower than 2014
levels of around $35 billion. We are considering further reductions to
capital investment should the evolving market outlook warrant that step,
but are aiming to retain growth potential for the medium term. Asset
sales are a key element of our st rategy, improving our capital
efficiency by focusing our investment on the most attractive growth
opportunities. Proceeds from sales of non-strategic assets in 2014, and
from the initial public offering in Shell Midstream Partners, L.P., totalled
$15 billion, successfully completing our divestment programme for
2014-2015. The completed divestment programme will result in
various production a nd tax effects in 2015. We also expect higher
levels of downtime in 2015, especially in Upstream and Chemicals,
driven by increased maintenance activities. We will continue the
initiatives started in 2014, which are expected to improve our North
America resource plays and Oil Products businesses. We have new
initiatives underway in 2015 that are expected to improve our
upstream engine and resource plays outside the Americas. The focus of
these initiatives will be on the profitability of our portfolio and growth
potential.
Shell has built up a substantial portfolio of project options for future
growth. This portfolio has been designed to capture energy price
upside and manage Shell’s exposure to industry challenges from cost
inflation and political risk. Today’s lower oil prices are creating
opportunities to reduce our own costs and to take costs out of the
supply chain.
The statements in this “Strategy and outlook” section, including those
related to our growth strategies and our expected or potential future
cash flow from operations, capital investment, divestment proceeds
and production, are based on management’s current expectations and
certain material assumptions and, accordingly, involve risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to
differ materially from those expressed or implied herein. See “About
this Report” and “Risk factors”.

16 STRATEGIC REPORT
MARKET OVERVIEW SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
MARKET OVERVIEW
GLOBAL ECONOMIC GROWTH
According to the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) January 2015
World Economic Outlook , global economic growth was 3.3% in
2014, unchanged from 2013. The IMF es timated that the eurozone’s
gross domestic product (GDP) grew by 0.8% in 2014 compared with
a contraction of 0.5% in 2013, US growth was 2.4%, up from 2.2%
in 2013, while Chinese growth slowed from 7.8% in 2013 to 7.4%.
The average GDP growth rate for emerging markets and developing
economies fell to 4.4%, compared with 4.7% in 2013.
Growth in 2014 fell short of the IMF’s forecast of 3.7% made at the
beginning of 2014. Harsh winter wea ther in the first quarter weighed
on US growth for the year, Japan’s growth was hampered by a
substantial increase in value added tax in the second quarter, while the
eurozone’s return to growth has been slow. Meanwhile, growth has
slowed in important markets such as China, Russia and Brazil.
The IMF expects global economic growth to rise to 3.5% in 2015, but
that would still be less than the annual average of 3.9% for the
previous 10 years.
GLOBAL OIL AND GAS DEMAND AND SUPPLY
Reflecting the economic conditions described above, global oil demand
rose by 0.7% (0.6 million barrels per day (b/d)) in 2014, according to
the International Energy A gency’s (IEA) January 2015 Oil Market Report .
The IEA repeatedly revised down its oil demand growth estimate for the
year from 1.4 million b/d in ear ly 2014. Demand grew in emerging
economies, while remaining almost flat in advanced economies.
On the non-OPEC supply side, the US Energy Information Administration
reported another year of continued supply growth in the Lower 48 US
states: in 2014 supply grew by some 1 million b/d year-on-year. As a
consequence of somewhat reduced demand growth and strong non-
OPEC supply growth, oil prices fell from about $110 per barrel (/b) in
mid-2014 to $75/b just ahead of the November OPEC meeting at
which the members decided to maintain their production at 30 million
b/d, rather than to reduce their production to balance non-OPEC supply
growth. The market interpreted this decision as an increased risk of
oversupply and oil prices further declined to lows of around $54/b in
December.
We estimate that global gas demand grew by about 1% in 2014,
similar to growth in 2013, which is much lower than the average annual
growth rate of about 2.5% in the past decade. A combination of
unusually mild weather, except in the USA, a decline in natural gas
production and weak global economic growth led to a lower rate of
demand growth in most regions. We believe that most of the growth in
demand was in China and the USA, driven by their power generation
and industrial sectors. European gas demand has weakened over the
last few years and this trend is likely to have continued in 2014,
according to gas industry association Eurogas.
CRUDE OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICES
The following table provides an overview of the main crude oil and
natural gas price markers that Shell is exposed to:
OIL AND GAS AVERAGE INDUSTRY PRICES [A]
2014 2013 2012
Brent( $ / b ) 99 109 112
West Texas Intermediate ($/b) 93 98 94
Henry Hub ($/MMBtu) 4.3 3.7 2.8
UK National BalancingP o int( p ence/therm) 50 68 60
Japan Customs-cleared Crude ($/b) 108 110 115
[A] Yearly average prices are based on daily spot prices. The 2014 average price for Japan
Customs-cleared Crude excludes December data.
The Brent crude oil price, an international crude-oil benchmark, traded
in a range of $54-115/b in 2014, ending the year at $55/b. Both
the Brent and the West Texas Intermediate (WTI) average crude oil
prices for 2014 were lower than in 2013, as a result of demand
growth being outpaced by continued non-OPEC supply growth, in
particular in North America.
W T Ic o n t i n u e dt ot r a d ea tad i s c o u n tt oB r e n t ,a n df o l l o w e dt h eB r e n t
price trajectory. The discount n arrowed compared with 2013 after an
expansion in pipeline capacity helped improve access for refineries on
the US Gulf Coast to WTI that is delivered to the landlocked Cushing,
Oklahoma, trading hub.
Looking ahead, substantial price volatility can be expected in the short
to medium term. Oil prices may strengthen if the global economy
accelerates, or if supply tightens as a result of a deceleration in non-
OPEC production growth due to current price weakness, in particular
US light tight oil, or if supply disruptions occur in major producing
countries. Alternatively, oil prices may weaken further if economic
growth slows or production continues to rise.
Unlike crude oil pricing, which is global in nature, gas prices vary
significantly from region to region. In the USA, the natural gas price at
the Henry Hub averaged $4.3 per million British thermal units (MMBtu)
in 2014, 16% higher than in 2013, and traded in a range of
$2.7-7.9/MMBtu. The year began w ith one of the coldest winters on
record and Henry Hub average monthly gas prices peaked in February
at $5.8/MMBtu. But robust growth in gas production and normal
weather in the summer led to a steep decline in prices from a high of
$4.7/MMBtu in mid-June to $3.8/MMBtu by the end of July. An early
cold snap caused a price spike to $4.4/MMBtu in mid-November,
but it had fallen to $3.0/MMbtu by the end of the year.
In Europe, gas prices fell. In the UK, the average price at the UK
National Balancing Point was 21% lo wer than in 2013. In continental
Europe, price decreases at the main gas trading hubs in Belgium,
Germany and the Netherlands were similar to those at the UK National
Balancing Point. Lower prices reflected milder than expected weather
a n di m p r o v e ds u p p l i e so fL N Go nt h eg l o b a lm a r k e t .T h ed o m i n a n c e
of oil-indexed gas pricing is decreasing in continental Europe, with
many natural gas contracts now including spot market pricing as a
major component.
We also produce and sell natural gas in regions where supply,
demand and regulatory circumstances differ markedly from those in the
USA or Europe. Long-term contracted LNG prices in Asia-Pacific are
predominantly indexed to the price of Japan Customs-cleared Crude
(JCC). In Japan, LNG import contracts have historically been indexed
to the JCC benchmark.
We see growing demand for LNG in China, India, the Middle East,
South America and South-east Asia. In these markets, LNG supply is
offered on term and spot bases. North American export projects have
been offering future gas supply linked to US Henry Hub prices.
CRUDE OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICES FOR
INVESTMENT EVALUATION
The range of possible future crude oil and natural gas prices used in
project and portfolio evaluations by Shell is determined after an
assessment of short-, medium- and long-term price drivers under
different sets of assumptions. Historical analysis, trends and statistical
volatility are considered in this assessment, as are analyses of possible
future economic conditions, geopolitics, actions by OPEC, production
costs and the balance of supply and demand. Sensitivity analyses are
used to test the impact of low-price drivers, such as economic
weakness, and high-price drivers, such as strong economic growth and
low investment in new production capacity. Short-term events, such as

STRATEGIC REPORT 17
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 MARKET OVERVIEW
relatively warm winters or cool summers affect demand. Supply
disruptions, due to weather or political instability, contribute to price
volatility.
We expect oil and gas prices to remain volatile. For the purposes of
making investment decisions, generally we test the economic
performance of long-term project s against price ranges of $70-110/b
for Brent crude oil and $3.5-5.0/ MMBtu for gas at the Henry Hub. As
part of our normal business practice, the range of prices used for this
purpose is subject to review and change, and was last confirmed in
the fourth quarter of 2014. See “Risk factors”.
REFINING AND PETROCHEMICAL MARKET TRENDS
Industry refining margins wer e higher on average in 2014 than in
2013 in the key refining hubs of the USA and Singapore, and were
little changed in Europe. In particular, margins improved in the USA
where increased domestic crude oil and natural gas production
lowered oil acquisition costs (relative to international prices). Some
demand growth, especially around the summer driving season in the
USA, also contributed to higher US Gulf Coast margins. In 2015,
increased demand for middle distillates is expected to be a key driver
of refining margins, supported by demand for gasoline in the middle of
the year. However, the overall outlook remains unclear because of
continuing economic uncertainty, geopolitical tensions in some regions
that could lead to supply disruptions and overcapacity in the global
refining market.
In Chemicals, industry naphtha c racker margins increased from 2013,
particularly in Asia where there was less cracker capacity available.
US ethane cracker margins were high relative to naphtha cracker
margins in other regions due to ample ethane supply. The outlook for
petrochemicals for 2015 is dependent on the growth of the global
economy, especially in Asia, and dev elopments in raw material prices.

18 STRATEGIC REPORT
SUMMARY OF RESULTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
SUMMARY OF RESULTS
INCOME FOR THE PERIOD $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Earnings by segment[ A ]
Upstream 15,841 12,638 22,244
Downstream 3,411 3,869 5,382
Corporate (156) 372 (203)
Total segmente a rnings [A] 19,096 16,879 27,423
Attributable to non-controllingi nterest (55) (134) (259)
Earnings on a currentc o s tof supplies basis attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc
shareholders 19,041 16,745 27,164
Currentc o s tof supplies adjustment[ A ] (4,366) (353) (463)
Non-controllingi nterest 199 (21) 11
Income attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 14,874 16,371 26,712
Non-controllingi nterest (144) 155 248
Income for the period 14,730 16,526 26,960
[A] See Note 2 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”. Seg ment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis.
EARNINGS 2014-2012
Global realised liquids prices were 8% lower in 2014 than in 2013.
Global realised natural gas pric es were 6% lower than in 2013, with
a 20% increase in the Americas and an 11% decrease outside the
Americas.
Oil and gas production available for sale in 2014 was 3,080 thousand
barrels of oil equivalent per day (boe/d), compared with 3,199
thousand boe/d in 2013. Liquids production was down 4% and natural
gas production decreased by 4% compared with 2013. Excluding the
impact of divestments, the Abu Dhabi licence expiry, production-sharing
contract price effects and security impacts in Nigeria, production volumes
in 2014 increased by 2% compared with 2013.
Realised refining margins in 2014 were significantly higher overall and
higher in all regions apart from the US West Coast compared with 2013.
The increase was driven by operational improvements and a stronger
margin environment in most regions.
Earnings on a current cost of supplies basis (CCS earnings) attributable
to shareholders in 2014 were 14% higher than in 2013, which in turn
were 38% lower than in 2012. Segmen t earnings are presented on
this basis.
CCS earnings exclude the effect of changes in the oil price on inventory
valuation, as the purchase price of the volumes sold during a period is
based on the current cost of supplies during the same period, after making
allowance for the tax effect. Accordingly, when oil prices increase during
the period, CCS earnings are likely to be lower than earnings calculated
on a first-in first-out (FIFO) basis. Similarly, in a period with declining oil
prices, CCS earnings are likely to be higher than earnings calculated on
a FIFO basis. This explains why 2014 CCS earnings were $4,366
million higher than earnings calculated on a FIFO basis (2013: $353
million higher; 2012: $463 million higher).
Upstream earnings in 2014 were $15,841 million, compared with
$12,638 million in 2013 and $22,244 million in 2012. The 25%
increase from 2013 to 2014 was mainly driven by increased
contributions from liquids production volumes from both the start-up of
new high-margin deep-water projects and improved operational
performance, higher divestment gains, lower exploration expenses,
primarily driven by fewer well write-offs, increased contributions from
Trading and lower impairment charges. These effects were partially
offset by the impact of declining oil prices and higher depreciation
(excluding impairments). The 43% decrease from 2012 to 2013
reflected higher depreciation charges (partly driven by impairments),
lower divestment gains, higher exploration expenses (mainly driven by
well write-offs), higher operating expenses and lower liquids and LNG
realisations. Earnings in 2013 were also impacted by a deterioration
in the operating environment in Nigeria and the impact of the
weakening Australian dollar on a deferred tax liability. These effects
were partly offset by the contribution of our Pearl GTL plant in Qatar
and higher gas price realisations in the Americas, together with net tax
gains in 2013 compared with net tax charges and higher
decommissioning provisions in 2012.
Downstream earnings in 2014 we re $3,411 million compared with
$3,869 million in 2013 and $5,382 million in 2012. The 12%
decrease from 2013 to 2014 reflected s ignificantly higher charges for
impairment which were partially offset by higher realised refining
margins, higher earnings from Trading and Supply and lower costs
(mainly as a result of divestme nts). The 28% decrease from 2012 to
2013 reflected significantly lower r ealised refining margins and higher
charges for impairment, partly o ffset by higher contributions from
Chemicals and Trading.
Corporate earnings in 2014 were a loss of $156 million, compared
with a gain of $372 million in 2013 and a loss of $203 million in
2012. Compared with 2013, Corporat e earnings in 2014 reflected
lower tax credits, higher net interest expense and adverse currency
exchange rate effects. Compar ed with 2012, earnings in 2013 were
higher mainly due to a tax credit, the recharge to the business
segments of certain costs and lower net interest expense, partly offset
by adverse currency exchange rate effects.
NET CAPITAL INVESTMENT AND GEARING
Net capital investment was $23.9 billion, 46% lower than in 2013.
This was driven by higher proceeds from divestments and lower capital
investment (see “Non-GAAP me asures reconciliations”).
Gearing was 12.2% at the end of 2014, compared with 16.1% at the
end of 2013, as a result of a significant increase in cash and cash
equivalents (driven by the lower net capital investment), combined with
a 2% increase in total debt and a 5% decrease in equity.
PROVED RESERVES AND PRODUCTION
Shell subsidiaries’ and the Shell share of joint ventures and associates’
estimated net proved oil and gas reserves are summarised in
“Upstream” and set out in more detail in “Supplementary information –
oil and gas (unaudited)”.

STRATEGIC REPORT 19
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SUMMARY OF RESULTS
In 2014, Shell added 301 million boe of proved reserves before
taking production into account, of which 271 million boe were from
Shell subsidiaries and 30 million boe were from the Shell share of joint
ventures and associates. These additions were positively impacted by
lower commodity prices (44 million boe) and negatively impacted by
sales that exceeded purchases (274 million boe).
In 2014, total oil and gas production available for sale was
1,124 million boe. An additional 40 million boe was produced and
consumed in operations. Production available for sale from subsidiaries
was 895 million boe with an additional 30 million boe consumed in
operations. The Shell share of the production available for sale of joint
ventures and associates was 229 million boe with an additional
10 million boe consumed in operations.
Accordingly, after taking production into account, there was a
decrease of 863 million boe in proved reserves, comprising a
decrease of 654 million boe from subsidiaries and a decrease of
209 million boe from the Shell share of joint ventures and associates.
KEY ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
Refer to Note 3 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for a
discussion of key accounting estimates and judgements.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Refer to Note 25 to the “Consolidat ed Financial Statements” for a
discussion of legal proceedings.

20 STRATEGIC REPORT
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Total shareholder return
2014 -3.0% 2013 8.6%
Total shareholder return (TSR) is the difference between the share price
at the start of the year and the share price at the end of the year, plus
gross dividends delivered during the calendar year (reinvested
quarterly), expressed as a percentage of the year-start share price. The
TSRs of major publicly traded oil and gas companies can be directly
compared, providing a way to determine how Shell is performing
against its industry peers.
Net cash from operating activities ($ billion)
2014 45 2013 40
Net cash from operating activities is the total of all cash receipts and
payments associated with our sales of oil, gas, chemicals and other
products. The components that provide a reconciliation from income for
the period are listed in the “Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows”.
This indicator reflects Shell’s ability to generate cash for both
investment and distribution to shareholders.
Project delivery
2014 83% 2013 88%
Project delivery reflects Shell’s capability to complete major projects on
time and within budget on the basis of targets set in the annual
Business Plan. The set of projects con sists of at least 20 Shell-operated
capital projects that are in the execution phase (post final investment
decision).
Production available for sale (thousand boe/d)
2014 3,080 2013 3,199
Production is the sum of all average daily volumes of unrefined oil and
natural gas produced for sale by Shell subsidiaries and Shell’s share of
those produced for sale by joint ventures and associates. The unrefined
oil comprises crude oil, natural gas liquids, synthetic crude oil and
bitumen. The gas volume is converted to equivalent barrels of oil to
make the summation possible. Changes in production have a
significant impact on Shell’s cash flow.
Equity sales of liquefied natural gas (million tonnes)
2014 24.0 2013 19.6
Equity sales of liquefied natural gas (LNG) is a measure of the
operational performance of Shell’s Upstream business and LNG market
demand.
Refinery and chemical plant availability
2014 92.1% 2013 92.5%
Refinery and chemical plant availability is the weighted average of the
actual uptime of plants as a percentage of their maximum possible
uptime. The weighting is based on the capital employed adjusted for
cash and non-current liabilities. It excludes downtime due to
uncontrollable factors, such as hurricanes. This indicator is a measure
of the operational excellence of Shell’s Downstream manufacturing
facilities.
Total recordable case frequency
(injuries per million working hours)
2014 0.99 2013 1.15
Total recordable case frequency (TRCF) is the number of staff or
contractor injuries requiring medical treatment or time off for every
million hours worked. It is a standard measure of occupational safety.

STRATEGIC REPORT 21
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Earnings on a current cost of supplies basis attributable to
Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders ($ million)
2014 19,041 2013 16,745
Earnings per share on a current cost of supplies basis ($)
2014 3.02 2013 2.66
Earnings on a current cost of supplies basis (CCS earnings) attributable
to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders is the income for the period,
adjusted for the after-tax effect of oil-price changes on inventory and
non-controlling interest. CCS earnings per share is calculated by
dividing CCS earnings attributable to shareholders by the average
number of shares outstanding. See “Summary of results” and Note 2 to
the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
Net capital investment ($ million)
2014 23,899 2013 44,303
Net capital investment is a measure used to make decisions about
allocating resources and assessing performance. It is defined as net
cash used in investing activities as reported in the “Consolidated
S t a t e m e n to fC a s hF l o w s ”p l u se x p l o r a t i o ne x p e n s e ,e x c l u d i n g
exploration wells written off, new finance leases and other adjustments.
See “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations”.
Return on average capital employed
2014 7.1% 2013 7.9%
Return on average capital employed (ROACE) is defined as annual
income, adjusted for after-tax interest expense, as a percentage of
average capital employed during the year. Capital employed is the
sum of total equity and total debt. ROACE measures the efficiency of
Shell’s utilisation of the capital that it employs and is a common
measure of business performance. See “Liquidity and capital
resources – Return on average capital employed”.
Gearing
2014 12.2% 2013 16.1%
Gearing is defined as net debt (total debt less cash and cash
equivalents) as a percentage of total capital (net debt plus total equity),
at December 31. It is a measure of the degree to which Shell’s
operations are financed by debt. See Note 14 to the “Consolidated
Financial Statements”.
Proved oil and gas reserves attributable to Royal Dutch Shell
plc shareholders (million boe)
2014 13,070 2013 13,932
Proved oil and gas reserves attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc
shareholders are the total estimated quantities of oil and gas from Shell
subsidiaries (excluding reserves attributable to non-controlling interest)
and Shell’s share from joint ventures and associates that geoscience
and engineering data demonstrate, with reasonable certainty, to be
recoverable in future years from known reservoirs, as at December 31,
under existing economic conditions, operating methods and
government regulations. Gas volumes are converted to barrels of oil
equivalent (boe) using a factor of 5,800 standard cubic feet per
barrel. Reserves are crucial to an oil and gas company, since they
constitute the source of future production. Reserves estimates are
subject to change based on a wide variety of factors, some of which
are unpredictable. See “Risk factors”.
Operational spills of more than 100 kilograms
2014 153 2013 174
The operational spills indicator is the number of incidents in respect of
activities where we are the operator in which 100 kilograms or more
of oil or oil products were spilled as a result of those activities.
Employees (thousand)
2014 94 2013 92
The employees indicator consists of the annual average full-time
employee equivalent of the total number of people on full-time or part-
time employment contracts with Shell subsidiaries including our share
of employees of certain additional joint operations.

22 STRATEGIC REPORT
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The selected financial data set out below are derived, in part, from the “Consolidated Financial Statements”. This data should be read in
conjunction with the “Consolidated Financial Statements” and related Notes, as well as with this Strategic Report.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME AND OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME DATA $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Revenue 421,105 451,235 467,153 470,171 368,056
Income for the period 14,730 16,526 26,960 31,093 20,474
(Loss)/income attributable to non-controllingi nterest (144) 155 248 267 347
Income attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc
shareholders 14,874 16,371 26,712 30,826 20,127
Comprehensive income attributable to Royal Dutch
Shell plc shareholders 2,692 18,243 24,470 26,250 19,893
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Total assets 353,116 357,512 350,294 337,474 317,271
Total debt 45,540 44,562 37,754 37,175 44,332
Share capital 540 542 542 536 529
Equity attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc
shareholders 171,966 180,047 174,749 158,480 140,453
Non-controllingi nterest 820 1,101 1,433 1,486 1,767
EARNINGS PER SHARE $
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Basic earnings per €0.07 ordinary share 2.36 2.60 4.27 4.97 3.28
Diluted earnings per €0.07 ordinary share 2.36 2.60 4.26 4.96 3.28
SHARES NUMBER
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Basic weighted average number of Aa ndBs h a r e s 6,311,490,678 6,291,126, 326 6,261,184,755 6,212, 532,421 6,132,640,190
Diluted weighted average number of Aa ndBs h a r e s 6,311,605,118 6,293,381, 407 6,267,839,545 6,221, 655,088 6,139,300,098
OTHER FINANCIAL DATA $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Net cash from operating activities 45,044 40,440 46,140 36,771 27,350
Net cash used in investing activities 19,657 40,146 28,453 20,443 21,972
Dividends paid 9,560 7,450 7,682 7,315 9,979
Net cash used inf inancing activities 12,790 8,978 10,630 18,131 1,467
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 11,911 (8,854) 7,258 (2,152) 3,725
Earnings/(losses) by segment[ A ]
Upstream 15,841 12,638 22,244 24,466 15,935
Downstream 3,411 3,869 5,382 4,170 2,950
Corporate (156) 372 (203) 102 91
Total segmente a rnings 19,096 16,879 27,423 28,738 18,976
Attributable to non-controllingi nterest (55) (134) (259) (205) (333)
Earnings on a currentc o s tof supplies basis
attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders [B] 19,041 16,745 27,164 28,533 18,643
Net capital investment[ C ]
Upstream 20,704 39,217 25,320 19,083 21,222
Downstream 3,079 4,885 4,275 4,342 2,358
Corporate 116 201 208 78 100
Total 23,899 44,303 29,803 23,503 23,680
[A] See Notes 2 and 4 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
[B] See table in “Summary of results”.
[C] See “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations”.

STRATEGIC REPORT 23
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 UPSTREAM
UPSTREAM
KEY STATISTICS $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Segmente a rnings 15,841 12,638 22,244
Including:
Revenue (includingi nter-segments a l e s ) 92,299 92,869 94,550
Share of profit of jointv entures and associates 5,502 6,120 8,001
Production and manufacturinge x p enses 20,093 18,471 16,354
Selling, distribution anda dministrative expenses 1,055 1,194 1,211
Exploration 4,224 5,278 3,104
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation 17,868 16,949 11,387
Net capital investment[ A ] 20,704 39,217 25,320
Oil and gas production available for sale (thousandb o e / d ) 3,080 3,199 3,262
Equity LNG sales volume( million tonnes) 24.0 19.6 20.2
Proved oil and gas reserves at December 31 (million boe) [B] 13,070 13,932 13,556
[A] See “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations”.
[B] Excludes reserves attributable to non-con trolling interest in Shell subsidiaries.
OVERVIEW
Our Upstream businesses explore for and extract crude oil and natural
gas, often in joint arrangements with international and national oil and
gas companies. This includes the extraction of bitumen from mined oil
sands which we convert into synthetic crude oil. We liquefy natural
gas by cooling it and transport the liquefied natural gas (LNG) to
customers around the world. We also convert natural gas to liquids
(GTL) to provide high-quality fuels and other products, and we market
and trade crude oil and natural gas (including LNG) in support of our
Upstream businesses.
BUSINESS CONDITIONS
Global oil demand rose by 0.7% (0.6 million barrels per day (b/d)) in
2014, according to the Internatio nal Energy Agency’s January 2015
Oil Market Report . Demand grew in emerging economies while
remaining almost flat in advanced economies. The Brent crude oil
price, an international crude-oil benchmark, traded in a range of
$54-115 per barrel (/b) in 2014, ending the year at $55/b.
We estimate that global gas demand grew by about 1% in 2014,
similar to growth in 2013, which is much lower than the average
annual growth rate of about 2.5% in the past decade. A combination
of unusually mild weather, except in the USA, a decline in natural gas
production and weak global economic growth led to a lower rate of
demand growth in most regions. We believe that most of the growth in
demand was in China and the USA, driven by their power generation
and industrial sectors. European gas demand has weakened over the
last few years and this trend is likely to have continued in 2014,
according to gas industry association Eurogas.
EARNINGS 2014-2013
Segment earnings of $15,841 mi llion included a net charge of
$664 million, reflecting impairm ent charges of $2,406 million,
predominantly related to tight-gas shale properties in the USA, and
further charges of $718 million rela ted to an update of an Australian
deferred tax asset and a deferred tax liability related to an associate
company. These charges were partly offset by divestment gains of
$2,073 million mainly related to Wheatstone and to a portion of our
shareholding in Woodside Petroleum Limited (Woodside) in Australia,
Oil Mining Lease (OML) 24 in Nigeria and Haynesville in the USA.
Other favourable impacts mainly related to the net effect of fair value
accounting of commodity derivatives and certain gas contracts, and to
amendments to our Dutch pension plan.
Segment earnings in 2013 of $12,638 million included a net charge
of $2,479 million, primarily related to the impairment of liquids-rich
shale properties in North America, partly offset by net tax gains and
gains on divestments.
Excluding the net charges described above, segment earnings in
2014 increased by 9% compared with 2013, driven by increased
contributions from liquids production volumes from both the start-up of
new high-margin deep-water projects and improved operational
performance. Earnings also reflected lower exploration expenses,
primarily driven by fewer well write-offs, and increased contributions
from Trading. Earnings were impacted by declining oil prices, losses in
Upstream Americas tight-gas and liquids-rich shale, and higher
depreciation.
Global realised liquids prices were 8% lower than in 2013. Global
realised gas prices were 6% lower than in 2013, with a 20% increase
in the Americas and an 11% decrease outside the Americas.
Equity LNG sales volumes of 24.0 million tonnes were 22% higher
than in 2013, mainly reflecting the co ntribution from the Atlantic LNG
and Peru LNG assets following the acquisition from Repsol S.A. in
January 2014, and higher volumes from Nigeria LNG which in 2013
was impacted by reduced feed gas supply and the impact of a
blockade of shipments.
EARNINGS 2013-2012
Segment earnings in 2013 of $12,638 million included a net charge
of $2,479 million, as described ab ove. Segment earnings in 2012 of
$22,244 million included a net gain of $2,137 million, mainly
related to gains on divestments, partly offset by impairments for
onshore gas assets in the USA, net tax charges and decommissioning
provisions.
Excluding the net charge and net gain described above, segment
earnings in 2013 decreased by 25% compared with 2012 because
of higher exploration expenses (mainly driven by well write-offs),
operating expenses and depreciation, and lower liquids and LNG
realisations. Earnings were also impacted by a deterioration in the
operating environment in Nigeria and the impact of the weakening
Australian dollar on a deferred tax liability. This was partly offset by an
increased contribution from our Pearl GTL plant (Pearl) in Qatar and
higher gas prices in the Americas.

24 STRATEGIC REPORT
UPSTREAM SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
UPSTREAM CONTINUED
NET CAPITAL INVESTMENT
Net capital investment was $21 billion in 2014, compared with
$39 billion in 2013. Capital investment in 2014 was $31 billion (of
which $8 billion was exploration expenditure, including acquisitions of
unproved properties). Capital inv estment in 2013 was $40 billion.
Divestment proceeds were $11 billion in 2014 compared with $1
billion in 2013.
Net capital investment was lower t han in 2013 mainly due to higher
divestment proceeds and lower expenditure on acquisitions. Major
divestment proceeds in 2014 relate to a portion of our shareholding in
Woodside and to Wheatstone in Australia, Parque das Conchas
(BC-10) in Brazil and Haynesville and Pinedale in the USA. In 2014,
acquisition expenditure was lower than in 2013 which included the
acquisition of interests in Libra and BC-10 in Brazil and expenditure for
the acquisition of LNG businesses from Repsol S.A.
PORTFOLIO ACTIONS AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
We achieved the following op erational milestones in 2014:
In Malaysia, first oil was produced from the Shell-operated Gumusut-
Kakap deep-water development (Shell interest 29%). Peak production
of around 135 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (boe/d) is
expected. Work on the gas injection facilities is continuing.
Also in Malaysia, the Siakap North-Petai development (Shell interest
21%) commenced production and is expected to deliver peak
production of around 30 thousand boe/d.
In Nigeria, first oil was produced from the Shell-operated Bonga North
West deep-water development (Shell interest 55%) which is expected
to deliver peak production of around 40 thousand boe/d. Oil from the
subsea facilities is transported by a new undersea pipeline to the
existing Bonga floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO)
export facility, which has been upgraded to handle the additional oil
flow.
In the USA, there were two major start-ups in the deep-water Gulf of
Mexico with first oil produced from the Mars B (Shell interest 71.5%)
and Cardamom (Shell interest 100% ) developments. Production from
these developments is planned to ramp up to 80 thousand boe/d and
50 thousand boe/d respectively.
The acquisition of part of Repsol S.A.’s LNG portfolio was completed
in January 2014, including LNG supp ly positions in Peru and Trinidad
and Tobago, for a net cash purchase price of $3.8 billion, adding
7.2 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) of directly managed LNG volumes
through long-term off-take agreements, including 4.2 mtpa of equity
LNG plant capacity.
We also took several final inve stment decisions during 2014,
including the following:
In Brunei, the final investment decision was taken on the Maharaja Lela
South development (Shell interest 35%). The development is expected
to deliver peak production of 35 thousand boe/d.
In Nigeria, we took the final investment decision on the Bonga Main
Phase 3 project (Shell interest 55%). The development is expected to
deliver some 40 thousand boe/d at peak production through the
existing Bonga FPSO.
In the USA, we took the final investment decision on the Coulomb
Phase 2 project (Shell interes t 100%) in the Gulf of Mexico. The
development is a subsea tie-back into the Na Kika semi-submersible
storage platform and is expected to deliver some 20 thousand boe/d
at peak production.
We continued to divest selected Upstream assets during 2014,
including the following:
In Australia, we sold 78.27 mi llion shares in Woodside for
$3.0 billion, reducing Shell’s interest from 23% to 14%.
Also in Australia, we sold our 8% interest in the Wheatstone-lago joint
venture and our 6.4% interest in the Wheatstone LNG project, which is
under development, for $1.5 billion.
In Brazil, we sold a 23% interest in the Shell-operated deep-water
project BC-10 to Qatar Petroleum International for $1.2 billion,
including closing adjustment.
Also in Brazil, we sold our non-operated 20% interest in the BM-ES-23
concession in the Espirito Santos basin offshore for $0.2 billion.
In Canada, we sold our 100% intere st in the Orion steam assisted
gravity drainage project for $0.3 billion.
In Nigeria, we sold our 30% interest in OML 24 and related onshore
facilities for $0.6 billion.
In Upstream Americas tight-gas and liquids-rich shale, we completed a
review of our portfolio and strategy. Major divestments of non-core
positions are now complete and in 2014 included our interests in:
/H18546the Haynesville tight-gas shale asset in Louisiana, USA, for $1.1
billion including closing adjustments;
/H18546the Pinedale tight-gas shale asset in Wyoming, USA, for $0.9 billion
including closing adjustments and 155 thousand net acres in the
Marcellus and Utica shale areas in Pennsylvania, USA. We now
hold a 100% interest in the Tioga Area of Mutual Interest;
/H18546approximately 106,000 net acres of the Eagle Ford liquids-rich
shale asset in Texas, USA, for $0.5 billion including closing
adjustments;
/H18546the Mississippi Lime acreage in Kansas, USA, for $0.1 billion; and
/H18546additional assets for a total of $0.5 billion.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE PRODUCTION
In 2014, production was 3,080 thousand boe/d compared with
3,199 thousand boe/d in 2013. Liquid s and natural gas production
both decreased by 4% compared with 2013.
Production was reduced by 10% as a result of the ADCO licence
expiry in Abu Dhabi in January 2014, field declines and the
divestment of a number of assets (mainly shale assets in the Americas
and the reduction in our shareholding in Woodside).
This reduction was partly offset by new field start-ups and the
continuing ramp-up of existing projects, in particular Majnoon in Iraq
and Mars B and BC-10 Phase 2 in the Americas, which contributed
some 130 thousand boe/d to production in 2014. Improved
operational performance in 2014 provided further offset.

STRATEGIC REPORT 25
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 UPSTREAM
PROVED RESERVES
Shell subsidiaries’ and the Shell share of joint ventures and associates’
estimated net proved oil and gas reserves are summarised later in this
Upstream section and set out in more detail in “Supplementary
information – oil and gas (unaudited)”.
In 2014, Shell added 301 million boe of proved reserves before
taking production into account, of which 271 million boe came from
Shell subsidiaries and 30 million boe from the Shell share of joint
ventures and associates.
The change in the yearly avera ge commodity prices between 2013
and 2014 resulted in a net positive impact on the proved reserves of
44 million boe.
In 2014, after taking into account production, our total proved
reserves declined by 863 million boe.
Shell subsidiaries
Before taking production into account, Shell subsidiaries added
271 million boe of proved reser ves in 2014. This comprised
42 million barrels of oil and natural gas liquids and 229 million boe
(1,329 thousand million scf) of natural gas. Of the 271 million boe:
276 million boe were from the net effects of revisions and
reclassifications; 9 million boe were from improved recovery;
191 million boe came from extensions and discoveries; and a net
decrease of 205 million boe related to purchases and sales.
After taking into account production of 925 million boe (of which
30 million boe were consumed in operations), Shell subsidiaries’
proved reserves decreased by 654 million boe in 2014.
Shell subsidiaries’ proved developed reserves decreased by 12 million
boe to 6,777 million boe, while proved undeveloped reserves
decreased by 642 million boe to 3,404 million boe.
The total addition of 271 million boe before taking production into
account included a net positive impact from commodity price changes
of 43 million boe of proved reserves.
SYNTHETIC CRUDE OIL
Of the 301 million boe added to proved reserves, 81 million barrels
were synthetic crude oil. In 2014, we had synthetic crude oil
production of 49 million barrels of which 2 million barrels were
consumed in operations. At Dec ember 31, 2014, we had synthetic
crude oil proved reserves of 1,763 million barrels, of which 1,273
million barrels were proved developed reserves and 490 million
barrels were proved undeveloped reserves.
BITUMEN
Of the 301 million boe added to proved reserves, 12 million barrels
were bitumen. The addition of 12 million barrels comprised an
increase of 17 million barrels from net effects of revisions and
reclassifications, and an addition of 1 million barrels from extensions
and discoveries and a decrease from sales of 6 million barrels. After
taking into account production of 6 million barrels, bitumen proved
reserves were 428 million barrels at December 31, 2014.
Shell share o f jointv entures a nd associates
Before taking production into account, there was an increase of
30 million boe in the Shell share of joint ventures and associates’
proved reserves in 2014. This comprised 11 million barrels of oil and
natural gas liquids and 19 million boe (112 thousand million scf) of
natural gas. Of the 30 million boe, 91 million boe came from the net
effects of revisions and reclassifications, 8 million boe came from
extensions and discoveries and a decrease of 69 million boe from
sales.
After taking into account production of 239 million boe (of which
10 million boe were consumed in oper ations), the Shell share of joint
ventures and associates’ proved reserves decreased by 209 million
boe in 2014.
The Shell share of joint ventures and associates’ proved developed
reserves decreased by 336 million boe to 2,206 million boe, and
proved undeveloped reserves increased by 127 million boe to
694 million boe.
The total addition of 30 million boe before taking production into
account was impacted by net positive impact from commodity price
c h a n g e so f1m i l l i o nb o eo fp r o v e dr e s e r v e s .
Proved u ndeveloped reserves
In 2014, Shell subsidiaries’ and the Shell share of joint ventures and
associates‘ proved undeveloped reserves (PUD) decreased by 515
million boe to 4,098 million boe. A number of Shell fields saw some
changes to proved undeveloped reserves, with the largest reductions
occurring in the USA in Mars and in Europe in Schiehallion. The most
significant additions to the PUD occurred in Champion and Champion
West in Asia and in Canada in Muskeg River Mine. The 515 million
boe decrease in proved undeveloped reserves comprised: a reduction
of 259 million boe from revisions; a net reclassification of 125 million
boe from proved undeveloped to proved developed reserves; a net
reclassification of 266 million boe from proved undeveloped reserves
to contingent resource; an addition of 208 million boe from
extensions, discoveries and improved recovery; and a net decrease of
73 million boe related to purchases and sales.
An amount of 174 million boe was matured to proved developed
reserves from contingent resource as a result of project execution
during the year.
Shell proved undeveloped reserves held for five years or more (PUD5+)
at December 31, 2014, amount to 1,600 million boe, a net increase
of 774 million boe compared with the end of 2013. These PUD5+
remain undeveloped because development either: requires the
installation of gas compression and the drilling of additional wells,
which will be executed when required to support existing gas delivery
commitments (in Netherlands, Norway, the Philippines and Russia);
requires gas cap blow down which is awaiting end-of-oil production
(in Nigeria); or will take longer than five years because of the
complexity and scale of the project (in countries like Kazakhstan). The
increase in PUD5+ reflects the ageing of 808 million boe PUD booked
in 2009 and the transfer of 34 milli on boe PUD to proved developed
reserves. The largest contributors to the increase of PUD5+ are Muskeg
River Mine, Gorgon and Jansz-lo. Two fields, Bonga and Val d’Agri,
contribute to a reduction in PUD5+ due to projects being brought on
stream. The Shell fields with the largest PUD5+ are now Muskeg River
M i n e ,f o l l o w e db yG o r g o n ,G r o n i n g e n( s e c o n da n dt h i r ds t a g e
compression), Jansz-lo and Kashaghan.
During 2014, Shell spent $17.3 billion on development activities
related to PUD maturation.
DELIVERY COMMITMENTS
Shell sells crude oil and natural gas from its producing operations
under a variety of contractual obligations. Most contracts generally
commit Shell to sell quantities based on production from specified
properties, although some natural gas sales contracts specify delivery
of fixed and determinable quantities, as discussed below.
In the past three years, with the exception of Brunei, Shell met all
contractual delivery commitments.
In the period 2015 to 2017, Shell is contractually committed to deliver
to third parties and joint ventures and associates a total of

26 STRATEGIC REPORT
UPSTREAM SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
UPSTREAM CONTINUED
approximately 4,000 thousand million scf of natural gas from Shell
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. The sales contracts contain
a mixture of fixed and variable pricing formulae that are generally
referenced to the prevailing market price for crude oil, natural gas or
other petroleum products at the time of delivery.
The shortfall between Shell’s delivery commitments and its proved
developed reserves is estimated at 21% of Shell’s total gas delivery
commitments. This shortfall is expected to be met through the
development of proved undeveloped reserves as well as new projects
and purchases on the spot market.
EXPLORATION
In 2014, Shell made 10 notable disc overies, including in the USA,
Gabon and Malaysia. Discoveries will be evaluated further in order to
establish the extent of commercially producible volumes they contain.
In 2014, Shell participated in 151 pr oductive exploratory wells with
proved reserves allocated (Shell share: 99 wells). For further
information, see “Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited)
– Acreage and wells”.
In 2014, Shell participated in a further 126 wells (Shell share: 77
wells) that remained pending determination at December 31, 2014.
In total, the net acreage in Shell’s exploration portfolio decreased by
34,000 square kilometres, compris ing acreage decreases of 13,000
square kilometres in South Ame rica (withdrawal), 11,500 square
kilometres in Australia (divestment ), 8,000 square kilometres in Turkey
(relinquishment), 5,000 square kilometres in Canada (divestment), and
increases in acreage of 11,500 square kilometres in Namibia (licence
award) and 9,000 square kilometres in Greenland (equity increase).
BUSINESS AND PROPERTY
Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are involved in all
aspects of upstream activities, including matters such as land tenure,
entitlement to produced hydrocarbons, production rates, royalties,
pricing, environmental protection, social impact, exports, taxes and
foreign exchange.
The conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under which oil
and gas interests are held vary from country to country. In almost all
cases outside North America the legal agreements are generally
granted by or entered into with a government, government entity or
government-run oil and gas company, and the exploration risk usually
rests with the independent oil and gas company. In North America
these agreements may also be with private parties that own mineral
rights. Of these agreements, the following are most relevant to Shell’s
interests:
/H18546Licences (or concessions), which entitle the holder to explore for
hydrocarbons and exploit any commercial discoveries. Under a
licence, the holder bears the risk of exploration, development and
production activities, and is responsible for financing these activities.
In principle, the licence holder is entitled to the totality of production
less any royalties in kind. The government, government entity or
government-run oil and gas company may sometimes enter as a
participant in a joint arrangement sharing the rights and obligations
of the licence but usually without sharing the exploration risk. In a
few cases, the government entity, government-run oil and gas
company or agency has an option to purchase a certain share of
production.
/H18546Lease agreements, which are typically used in North America and
are usually governed by similar terms as licences. Participants may
include governments or private entities, and royalties are either paid
in cash or in kind.
/H18546Production-sharing contracts (PSCs) entered into with a government,
government entity or government-run oil and gas company. PSCs
generally oblige the independent oil and gas company, as
contractor, to provide all the financing and bear the risk of
exploration, development and production activities in exchange for
a share of the production. Usually, this share consists of a fixed or
variable part that is reserved for the recovery of the contractor’s cost
(cost oil). The remaining production is split with the government,
government entity or government-run oil and gas company on a fixed
or volume/revenue-dependent basis. In some cases, the
government, government entity or government-run oil and gas
company will participate in the rights and obligations of the
contractor and will share in the costs of development and
production. Such participation can be across the venture or on a
field-by-field basis. Additionally, as the price of oil or gas increases
above certain predetermined levels, the independent oil and gas
company’s entitlement share of production normally decreases, and
vice versa. Accordingly, its interest in a project may not be the same
as its entitlement.
Europe
DENMARK
We have a non-operating interest in a producing concession in Denmark
(Shell interest 36.8%), which was granted in 1962 and will expire in 2042.
The Danish government is one of our partners with a 20% interest.
IRELAND
We are the operator of the Corrib gas project (Shell interest 45%),
which is at an advanced stage of construction. Corrib has the potential
to supply a significant proportion of the country’s gas requirement. The
pipeline connection between the offshore wells and the onshore
processing terminal is complete. Initial operation and testing of
equipment has commenced at the terminal, using gas from the national
grid in advance of first gas production from the field, which is
expected in 2015.
ITALY
We have two non-operating interests in Italy: the Val d’Agri producing
concession (Shell interest 39.23% ) and the Tempa Rossa concession
(Shell interest 25%). During the s econd quarter of 2014 we entered the
front-end engineering and design (FEED) phase on the non-operated
project Val d’Agri Phase 2, which is expected to deliver peak
production of some 65 thousand boe/d. The Tempa Rossa field is
under development and first oil is expected in 2018.
NETHERLANDS
Shell and ExxonMobil are 50:50 shareholders in Nederlandse
Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (NAM), the largest hydrocarbon producer
in the Netherlands. An important part of NAM’s gas production comes
from the onshore Groningen gas field, in which the Dutch government
has a 40% interest and NAM a 60% interest. NAM also has a 60%
interest in the Schoonebeek oil field, which has been redeveloped
using enhanced oil recovery technology. NAM also operates a
significant number of other onshore gas fields and offshore gas fields in
the North Sea. In January 2015, the M inister of Economic Affairs of
the Netherlands approved NAM’s production plan for the Groningen
field for 2014 to 2016. This caps production levels at 42.5 billion
cubic metres for 2014 and 39.4 bi llion cubic metres in each of 2015
and 2016, in an effort to diminish the potential for seismic activity.
Since issuing his decision on the Groningen production plan, the
Minister of Economic Affairs has stated that he intends to cap
production at 16.5 billion cubic metres for the first half of 2015.

STRATEGIC REPORT 27
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 UPSTREAM
NORWAY
We are a partner in more than 30 production licences on the
Norwegian continental shelf. We are the operator in 14 of these, of
which two are producing: the Ormen Lange gas field (Shell interest
17.8%) and the Draugen oil field (S hell interest 44.6%). The other
producing fields are Troll, Gjøa, Kvitebjørn and Valemon.
UK
We operate a significant number of our interests on the UK Continental
Shelf on behalf of a 50:50 joint arrangement with ExxonMobil. Most
of our UK oil and gas production comes from the North Sea. We have
various non-operated interests in the Atlantic Margin area, principally
in the West of Shetlands area (Clair, Shell interest 28% and
Schiehallion, Shell interest approximately 55%). We also have interests
ranging from 20% to 49% in the Beryl area fields.
REST OF EUROPE
Shell also has interests in Albania, Austria, Germany, Greece,
Greenland, Hungary, Slovakia, Spain and Ukraine.
Asia (i ncluding the Middle East a nd Russia)
BRUNEI
Shell and the Brunei government are 50:50 shareholders in Brunei
Shell Petroleum Company Sendirian Berhad (BSP). BSP has long-term
oil and gas concession rights onshore and offshore Brunei, and sells
most of its gas production to Brunei LNG Sendirian Berhad (BLNG,
Shell interest 25%). BLNG was the first LNG plant in Asia-Pacific and
sells most of its LNG on long-term contracts to customers in Asia.
We are the operator for the Block A concession (Shell interest 53.9%),
which is under exploration and development, and also operator for
exploration Block Q (Shell interest 50%). We have a 35% non-
operating interest in the Block B concession, where gas and
condensate are produced from the Maharaja Lela Field. In February
2014, the final investment decision was taken on the Maharaja Lela
South development (Shell interest 35%). It is expected to deliver a total
peak production of 35 thousand boe per day.
In addition, we have non- operating interests in deep-water exploration
Block CA-2 (Shell interest 12.5%) and in exploration Block N (Shell
interest 50%), both under PSCs.
CHINA
We operate the onshore Changbei tight-gas field under a PSC with
China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). The PSC includes the
development of tight gas in different geological layers of the block. In
Sichuan, Shell and CNPC have agreed to appraise, develop and
produce from tight-gas and liquids-rich shale formations in the Jinqiu
block under a PSC (Shell interest 49%) and have a PSC for shale-gas
exploration, development and production in the Fushun Yongchuan
block (Shell interest 49%).
We also have an interest in three offshore oil and gas blocks in the
Yinggehai basin, each under a PSC (Shell interest 49%).
INDONESIA
We have a 35% participating interest in the offshore Masela block
where INPEX Masela is the operator. The Masela block contains the
Abadi gas field. The operator has selected a floating LNG (FLNG)
concept for the field’s development phase.
IRAN
Shell transactions with Iran are disclosed separately. See
“Section 13(r) of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Disclosure”.
IRAQ
We have a 45% interest in the Majnoon oil field that we operate
under a technical service contra ct that expires in 2030. The other
Majnoon shareholders are PETRONAS (30%) and the Iraqi
government (25%), which is represented by the Missan Oil
Company. Majnoon is located in southern Iraq and is one of the
world’s largest oil fields. In 2013, we successfully restarted
production and Majnoon reached the milestone of first commercial
production of 175 thousand b oe/d. In 2014, production at
Majnoon averaged 194 thousand boe/d.
We also have a 20% interest in the West Qurna 1 field. Our
participating interest in the West Qurna concession has increased from
15% to 20% when the contract was renegotiated in 2014 and the
government share reduced from 25% to 5% and prorated to the
funding shareholders.
According to the provisions of both contracts, Shell’s equity entitlement
volumes will be lower than the Shell interest implies.
We also have a 44% interest in the Basrah Gas Company, which
gathers, treats and processes associated gas produced from the
Rumaila, West Qurna 1 and Zubair fields that was previously being
flared. The processed gas and associated products, such as
condensate and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), are sold primarily to
the domestic market with the potential to export any surplus.
KAZAKHSTAN
We have a 16.8% interest in the offs hore Kashagan field, where the
North Caspian Operating Company is the operator. This
shallow-water field covers an area of approximately 3,400 square
kilometres. Phase 1 development of the field is expected to lead to
plateau production of about 300 thousand boe/d, on a 100% basis,
increasing further with additional phases of development. After the start
of production from the Kashagan fi eld in September 2013, operations
had to be stopped in October 2013 due to gas leaks from the sour
gas pipeline. Following investigations, it has been decided that both
the oil and the gas pipeline will be replaced. Replacement activities
are ongoing, with production expected to restart in 2017.
We have an interest of 55% in the Pearls PSC, covering an area of
approximately 900 square kilometres in the Kazakh sector of the
Caspian Sea. It includes two oil discoveries, Auezov and Khazar.
MALAYSIA
We explore for and produce oil and gas located offshore Sabah and
Sarawak under 19 PSCs, in which our interests range from 20% to
85%.
Offshore Sabah, we operate five producing oil fields (Shell interests
ranging from 29% to 50%). These include the Gumusut-Kakap deep-
water field (Shell interest 29%) where production via a dedicated
floating production system co mmenced in October 2014. We have
additional interests ranging from 30% to 50% in PSCs for the
exploration and development of four deep-water blocks. These include
the Malikai field (Shell interest 35%) which is being developed with
Shell as the operator. We also have a 21% interest in the Siakap
North-Petai field, which comme nced production in 2014, and a 30%
interest in the Kebabangan field.
Offshore Sarawak, we are the operator of 17 producing gas fields
(Shell interests ranging from 37.5% to 70%). Nearly all of the gas
produced is supplied to Malaysia LNG in Bintulu where we have a
15% interest in the Dua (where ou r licence is due to expire in 2015)
and Tiga LNG plants. We also have a 40% interest in the 2011
Baram Delta EOR PSC and a 50% interest in Block SK-307.
Additionally, we have interests in five exploration PSCs: Deepwater
Block 2B, SK318, SK319, SK408 and SK320.

28 STRATEGIC REPORT
UPSTREAM SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
UPSTREAM CONTINUED
We operate a gas-to-liquids (GTL) plant (Shell interest 72%) adjacent
to the Malaysia LNG facilities in Bintulu. Using Shell technology, the
plant converts gas into high-quality middle distillates, drilling fluids,
waxes and speciality products.
OMAN
We have a 34% interest in Petroleum Development Oman (PDO); the
Omani government has a 60% interest. PDO is the operator of more
than 160 oil fields, mainly located in central and southern Oman over
an area of 114,000 square kilometres. The concession expires in
2044. During 2014, the Amal steam e nhanced oil recovery project
has been ramping up towards its expected peak production following
a successful start-up in 2013.
We are also participating in the Mukhaizna oil field (Shell interest
17%) where steam flooding, an enhanced oil recovery method, is
being applied on a large scale.
We have a 30% interest in Oman LNG, which mainly supplies Asian
markets under long-term contracts. We also have an 11% indirect
interest in Qalhat LNG, another LNG facility in the country.
QATAR
Pearl in Qatar is the world’s largest GTL plant. Shell operates it under
a development and production-sharing contract with the government.
The fully integrated facility includes production, transport and
processing of 1.6 billion scf/d of gas from Qatar’s North Field. It has
an installed capacity of about 140 thousand boe/d of high-quality
liquid hydrocarbon products and 120 thousand boe/d of NGL and
ethane. In 2014, Pearl produced 4.5 million tonnes of GTL products.
Of Pearl’s two trains, the first train is undergoing maintenance in the
first quarter of 2015, for an estimated two month period.
We have a 30% interest in Qatargas 4, which comprises integrated
facilities to produce about 1.4 billion scf/d of gas from Qatar’s North
Field, an onshore gas-processing facility and an LNG train with a
collective production capacity of 7.8 mtpa of LNG and 70 thousand
boe/d of condensate and NGL. The LNG is shipped mainly to China,
Europe and the United Arab Emirates.
RUSSIA
We have a 27.5% interest in Sakhalin-2, an integrated oil and gas
project located in a subarctic environment. In 2014, the project
produced 320 thousand boe/d and the output of LNG exceeded
10 million tonnes.
We have a 100% interest in an explor ation and production licence for
the Lenzitsky block in the Yamalo Nenets Autonomous District. In
2014, we returned the Arkatoisky (also in the Yamalo Nenets
Autonomous District) and the Barun-Yustinsky (in Kalmykia) licence
blocks to the government.
We also have a 50% interest through Khanty-Mansiysk Petroleum
Alliance V.O.F. (a 50:50 joint venture with Gazprom Neft) in three
exploration licence blocks in western Siberia: South Lungorsky 1,
Yuilsky 4 and Yuilsky 5.
We have a 50% interest in the Salym fields in western Siberia, where
production was 130 thousand boe/d in 2014.
As a result of EU and US sanctions prohibiting defined oil and gas
activities in Russia, in 2014 we paused our liquids-rich shales
exploration activities, which were being undertaken through Salym and
Khanty-Mansiysk Petroleum Alliance V.O.F.
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
In Abu Dhabi, we held a concessionary interest of 9.5% in the oil and
gas operations run by Abu Dhabi Company for Onshore Oil
Operations (ADCO) from 1939 to January 2014, when the licence
expired. We also have a 15% interest in the licence of Abu Dhabi
Gas Industries Limited (GASCO) , which expires in 2028. GASCO
exports propane, butane and heavier-liquid hydrocarbons, which it
extracts from the wet gas associated with the oil produced by ADCO.
We also participate in a 30-year joint venture to potentially develop
the Bab sour gas reservoirs in Abu Dhabi (Shell interest 40%). Shell
and the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company are in a period of
commercial and technical work that may lead to development, subject
to the signing of the respective joint-venture agreements.
REST OF ASIA
Shell also has interests in India, Japan, Jordan, the Philippines, Saudi
Arabia, Singapore, South Korea and Turkey.
Oceania
AUSTRALIA
We have interests in offshore production and exploration licences in
the North West Shelf (NWS) and Greater Gorgon areas of the
Carnarvon Basin, as well as in the Browse Basin and Timor Sea. Some
of these interests are held directly and others indirectly through a
shareholding of 14% in Woodside, reduced from 23% by a sale of
shares in 2014. All interests in Aust ralian assets quoted below are
direct interests.
Woodside is the operator of the Pluto LNG project. Woodside is also
the operator on behalf of six joint-venture participants in the NWS gas,
condensate and oil fields, which produced more than 500 thousand
boe/d in 2014. Shell provides t echnical support for the NWS
development.
We have a 50% interest in Arrow Energy Holdings Pty Limited (Arrow),
a Queensland-based joint venture with PetroChina. Arrow owns coal
bed methane assets and a domestic power business.
We have a 25% interest in the Gorgon LNG project, which involves
the development of some of the largest gas discoveries to date in
Australia, beginning with the offshore Gorgon (Shell interest 25%) and
Jansz-lo (Shell interest 19.6%) fields. The Gorgon LNG project is under
construction on Barrow Island and is expected to start before the end
of 2016.
We are the operator of a permit in the Browse Basin in which two
separate gas fields were found: Prelude in 2007 and Concerto in
2009. We are developing these fields on the basis of our FLNG
technology. The Prelude FLNG project (Shell interest 67.5%) is
expected to produce about 110 thousand boe/d of gas and NGL,
delivering 3.6 mtpa of LNG, 1.3 mtpa of condensate and 0.4 mtpa
of LPG. During 2014, constructio n of the Prelude FLNG project
continued, with a major milestone being the lifting of the first topside
modules onto the deck of the hull.
We are also a partner in the Browse joint ventures (Shell interests
ranging from 25% to 35%) covering the Brecknock, Calliance and
Torosa gas fields. In 2013, the Brows e joint venture selected Shell’s
FLNG technology to progress to the basis of design phase of the
project.

STRATEGIC REPORT 29
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 UPSTREAM
Our other interests include: a joint venture with Shell as the operator of
the Crux gas and condensate field (Shell interest 82%); the Shell-
operated AC/P41 block (Shell interest 75%); and the Sunrise gas field
in the Timor Sea (Shell interest 26.6%). We sold our interest in the
Wheatstone-Iago joint venture and our 6.4% interest in the Wheatstone
LNG project during the second quarter of 2014.
We are a partner in both Shell-operated and other, non-operated,
exploration joint ventures in multiple basins including the Bonaparte,
Exmouth Plateau, Greater Gorgon, Outer Canning and South Exmouth.
REST OF OCEANIA
Shell also has interests in New Zealand.
Africa
NIGERIA
Shell’s share of production, onshore and offshore, in Nigeria was
approximately 300 thousand boe/d in 2014, compared with
approximately 265 thousand boe/d in 2013. Security issues and
crude oil theft in the Niger Delta continued to be significant
challenges in 2014.
Onshore
The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Ltd (SPDC) is
the operator of a joint arrangement (Shell interest 30%) that has more
than 25 Niger Delta onshore oil mining leases (OMLs), which expire in
2019. To provide funding, modified c arry agreements are in place for
certain key projects and are being reimbursed.
SPDC supplies gas to Nigeria LNG Ltd (NLNG) mainly through its
Gbaran-Ubie and Soku projects. SPDC is undertaking a strategic
review of its interests in the eastern Niger Delta and has divested its
30% interest in OML 24. Agreements have been signed for the
divestment of the SPDC interests in three other onshore OMLs;
completion is subject to the consent of the Federal Government of
Nigeria. Additional divestments may occur as a result of the strategic
review.
While the level of crude oil theft activities and sabotage in 2014 was
similar to 2013, the impact on produ ction was smaller due to various
mitigation measures. During 2014, fo rce majeure related to security
issues, sabotage and crude oil theft was only declared once,
compared with four times in 2013.
Offshore
Our main offshore deep-water activities are carried out by Shell
Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCO, Shell interest
100%) which has interests in fo ur deep-water blocks. SNEPCO
operates OMLs 118 (including the Bonga field, Shell interest 55%) and
135 (Bolia and Doro, Shell interest 55%) and holds a 43.75% interest
in OML 133 (Erha) and a 50% interest in oil production lease
245 (Zabazaba, Etan). SNEPCO also has an approximate 43%
interest in the Bonga Southwest/Aparo development via its 55%
interest in OML 118. Deep-water o ffshore activities are typically
governed through PSCs.
First oil was produced from the Bonga North West deep-water
development in the third quarter of 2014, while in October the final
investment decision on the Bonga Main phase 3 project was taken,
which is expected to contribute some 40 thousand boe/d at peak
production through the existing Bonga FPSO export facility.
SPDC also has an interest in six shallow-water offshore leases, of
which five are under final negotiation for extension for a period of 20
years.
Liquefied natural gas
Shell has a 25.6% interest in NLNG, which operates six LNG trains
with a total capacity of 22.0 mtpa. In 2014, LNG production was
higher than in 2013, as 2013 was impacted by gas supply
constraints and the impact of a blockade of NLNG export facilities by
the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency.
REST OF AFRICA
Shell also has interests in Algeria, Benin, Egypt, Gabon, Namibia,
Somalia, South Africa, Tanzania and Tunisia.
North A merica
CANADA
We have more than 1,900 mineral leases in Canada, mainly in
Alberta and British Columbia. We produce and market natural gas,
NGL, synthetic crude oil and bitumen. In addition, we have significant
exploration acreage offshore. B itumen is a very heavy crude oil
produced through conventional methods as well as through enhanced
oil recovery methods. Synthetic crude oil is produced by mining
bitumen-saturated sands, extracting the bitumen from the sands and
transporting it to a processing facility where hydrogen is added to
produce a wide range of feedstocks for refineries.
Gas and liquids-rich shale
We continued to develop fields in Alberta and British Columbia during
2014 through drilling programmes and i nvestment in infrastructure to
facilitate new production. We own and operate natural gas
processing and sulphur-extraction plants in Alberta and natural gas
processing plants in British Colombia. During 2014, we began
decommissioning our Burnt Timber gas facility in Alberta. Also in 2014
we entered into a joint venture (Shell interest 50%) to evaluate an
investment in an LNG export facility in Kitimat on the west coast of
Canada. This project completed FEED in 2014, with the final
investment decision expected not earlier than 2016 and cash flows
expected early next decade.
Synthetic crude oil
We operate the Athabasca Oil Sands Project (AOSP) in north-east
Alberta as part of a joint arrangement (Shell interest 60%). The bitumen
is transported by pipeline for processing at the Scotford Upgrader,
which is also operated by Shell and located in the Edmonton area.
The Quest carbon capture and stor age project (Shell interest 60%),
which is expected to capture and permanently store more than 1 mtpa
of CO
2 from the Scotford Upgrader, is under construction and is
expected to start operation towards the end of 2015.
We also have a number of other minable oil sands leases in the
Athabasca region with expiry dates ranging from 2018 to 2025. By
completing a certain minimum level of development prior to their
expiry, leases may be extended.
Bitumen
We produce and market bitumen in the Peace River area of Alberta.
Additional heavy oil resources and advanced recovery technologies
are under evaluation on approximately 1,200 square kilometres in the
Grosmont oil sands area, also in northern Alberta. Construction of our
Carmon Creek project (Shell in terest 100%), which began in 2013,
continues. Carmon Creek is an in-situ project that is expected to
produce up to 80 thousand boe/d.

30 STRATEGIC REPORT
UPSTREAM SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
UPSTREAM CONTINUED
Offshore
We have a 31.3% interest in the Sable Offshore Energy project, a
natural-gas complex off the east coast of Canada and other acreages
in deep-water offshore Nova Scotia and Newfoundland. During
2014, we sold a 50% interest in the S helburne project offshore Nova
Scotia and retain a 50% interest as operator. We also have a number
of exploration licences off the west coast of British Columbia and in the
Mackenzie Delta in the Northwest Territories.
USA
We produce oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico, heavy oil in California
and primarily tight gas and oil from liquids-rich shales in Pennsylvania
and Texas. The majority of our oil and gas production interests are
acquired under leases granted by the owner of the minerals underlying
the relevant acreage, including many leases for federal onshore and
offshore tracts. Such leases usually run on an initial fixed term that is
automatically extended by the establishment of production for as long
as production continues, subject to compliance with the terms of the
lease (including, in the case of federal leases, extensive regulations
i m p o s e db yf e d e r a ll a w ) .
Gulf of Mexico
The Gulf of Mexico is our major production area in the USA, and
accounts for over 50% of Shell’s oil and gas production in the country.
We have an interest in approximately 450 federal offshore leases and
our share of production averaged almost 225 thousand boe/d in
2014. Key producing assets are Aug er, Brutus, Enchilada, Mars,
Na Kika, Olympus, Perdido, Ram-Powell and Ursa.
We continued significant exploration and development activities in the
Gulf of Mexico in 2014, with an averag e contracted offshore rig fleet
of nine mobile rigs and five platform rigs. We also secured five blocks
in the central and western lease sales in 2014.
Onshore
We have significant tight-gas and liquids-rich shale acreage, including
in the Marcellus and Utica shales, centred on Pennsylvania in north-
east USA and the Delaware Permian Basin in west Texas.
During 2014, we divested our interests in the Eagle Ford shale
formation in Texas, the Mississippi Lime in Kansas, the Utica shale
position in Ohio and our acreage in the Sandwash Niobrara basins in
Colorado. In addition, we sold our Haynesville gas assets in Louisiana
for cash and sold our Pinedale gas assets in Wyoming in exchange for
cash and additional acreage in the Marcellus and Utica shale areas in
Pennsylvania.
In recent years, we have invested significant amounts in our tight-gas
and liquids-rich shale portfolio. There is still a large amount of drilling
that must be conducted in our properties in order to establish our future
plans. Following the asset sales i n 2014, the current focus is on de-
risking and future development of our core assets, while continuing to
look for options to enhance the value of our portfolio in the current
market.
California
We have a 51.8% interest in Aera Energy LLC (Aera), which has assets
in the San Joaquin Valley and Los Angeles Basin areas of southern
California. Aera operates more than 15,000 wells, producing
approximately 130 thousand boe/d of heavy oil and gas.
Alaska
We have more than 410 federal leases for exploration in the Beaufort
and Chukchi seas in Alaska. In January 2014, we decided to suspend
our 2014 drilling campaign due to obstacles raised by the Ninth
Circuit Court of Appeal’s decision with regard to the Department of the
Interior’s (DOI) 2008 oil and ga s lease sale in the Chukchi Sea.
In August 2014, we submitted an Exploration Plan for a two-rig
programme in the Chukchi Sea. In November 2014, the DOI issued a
draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (SEIS) and the
comment period closed in December 2014. We anticipate that the
DOI will continue to work in accordance with their proposed timeline
to complete the SEIS in sufficient time to allow us to pursue our plans to
drill in 2015.
REST OF NORTH AMERICA
Shell also has interests in Mexico.
South A merica
BRAZIL
We are the operator of several producing fields in the Campos Basin,
offshore Brazil. They include the Bijupirá and Salema fields (Shell
interest 80%) and the BC-10 field (Shell interest 50%). We started
production from the BC-10 Phase 2 project in October 2013, which
reached peak production of 41 thousand boe/d in 2014. In 2013,
we exercised our pre-emptive rights to acquire an additional 23% in
the BC-10 project and in 2014 we sold a 23% interest to Qatar
Petroleum International, which returned our interest to 50%.
We operate one block in the São Francisco onshore basin area (Shell
interest 60%) and operate one offshore exploration block in the Santos
Basin, BM-S-54 (Shell interest 80%). We also have an interest in one
offshore exploration block in the Espirito Santo basins, BM-ES-27 (Shell
interest 17.5%). In November 2014, we divested our 20% interest in
BM-ES-23.
We also have an 18% interest in Brazil Companhia de Gas de São
Paulo (Comgás), a natural gas distribution company in the state of São
Paulo.
We have a 20% interest in a 35-year PSC to develop the Libra pre-salt
oil field located in the Santos Basin.
In January 2015, we reached an agreement to divest our operating
interest in our deep-water production asset Bijupira Salema, pending
regulatory approvals.
REST OF SOUTH AMERICA
The acquisition of part of Repsol S.A.’s LNG portfolio was completed
in January 2014, including LNG supply positions in Peru and Trinidad
and Tobago, adding 7.2 mtpa of directly managed LNG volumes
through long-term off-take agreements, including 4.2 mtpa of equity
LNG plant capacity.
Shell also has interests in Argentina, Colombia, French Guiana and
Venezuela.
Trading
We market a portion of our share of equity production of LNG and
also trade LNG volumes around the world through our hubs in Dubai
and Singapore. We also market and trade natural gas, power,
emission rights and crude oil from certain Shell Upstream operations in
the Americas and Europe.

STRATEGIC REPORT 31
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 UPSTREAM
SUMMARY OF PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES OF SHELL SUBSIDIARIES AND SHELL
SHARE OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES [A][B] (AT DECEMBER 31, 2014) BASED ON AVERAGE PRICES FOR 2014
Oil and natural
gas liquids
(millio n barrels)
Natural gas
(thousa nd
millio n scf)
Synthetic crude oil
(millio n barrels)
Bitu men
(millio n barrels)
Total
all products
(millio n boe)[C]
Proved developed
Europe 372 10,160 – – 2,124
Asia 1,169 13,615 – – 3,516
Oceania 51 1,831 – – 367
Africa 534 1,162 – – 734
North America
USA 494 1,275 – – 714
Canada 26 939 1,273 9 1,470
South America 51 42 – – 58
Total proved developed 2,697 29,024 1,273 9 8,983
Proved undeveloped
Europe 236 2,136 – – 604
Asia 513 2,486 – – 942
Oceania 89 4,247 – – 821
Africa 157 1,459 – – 409
North America
USA 217 286 – – 266
Canada 18 672 490 419 1,043
South America 12 6 – – 13
Total proved undeveloped 1,242 11,292 490 419 4,098
Total proved developed and undeveloped
Europe 608 12,296 – – 2,728
Asia 1,682 16,101 – – 4,458
Oceania 140 6,078 – – 1,188
Africa 691 2,621 – – 1,143
North America
USA 711 1,561 – – 980
Canada 44 1,611 1,763 428 2,513
South America 63 48 – – 71
Total 3,939 40,316 1,763 428 13,081
[A] Includes 11 million boe of reserves attributable to n on-controlling interest in Shell subsidiaries.
[B] Oceania includes Shell’s 14% share of Woodside, a publicly listed compan y on the Australian Securities Exchange. Shell has no access to data at Dec ember 31, 2014; accordingly, the
numbers are estimated.
[C] Natural gas volumes are converted to oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.

32 STRATEGIC REPORT
UPSTREAM SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
UPSTREAM CONTINUED
LOCATION OF OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND
PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES [A] (AT DECEMBER 31, 2014)
Exploration
Development
and/or
production Shell operator[B]
Europe
Albania /H18546
Denmark /H18546/H18546
Germany /H18546/H18546
Greenland /H18546/H18546
Ireland /H18546/H18546
Italy /H18546
Netherlands /H18546/H18546 /H18546
Norway /H18546/H18546 /H18546
UK /H18546/H18546 /H18546
Ukraine /H18546/H18546
Asia [C]
Brunei /H18546/H18546 /H18546
China /H18546/H18546 /H18546
Indonesia /H18546/H18546
Iraq /H18546/H18546
Jordan /H18546/H18546
Kazakhstan /H18546/H18546
Malaysia /H18546/H18546 /H18546
Oman /H18546/H18546
Philippines /H18546/H18546 /H18546
Qatar /H18546/H18546 /H18546
Russia /H18546/H18546 /H18546
Saudi Arabia /H18546
Turkey /H18546/H18546
Oceania
Australia /H18546/H18546 /H18546
New Zealand /H18546/H18546 /H18546
Africa
Benin /H18546
Egypt /H18546/H18546
Gabon /H18546/H18546 /H18546
Namibia /H18546/H18546
Nigeria /H18546/H18546 /H18546
South Africa /H18546/H18546
Tanzania /H18546
Tunisia /H18546/H18546
North America
USA /H18546/H18546 /H18546
Canada /H18546/H18546 /H18546
South America
Argentina /H18546/H18546 /H18546
Brazil /H18546/H18546 /H18546
Colombia /H18546/H18546
French Guiana /H18546/H18546
[A] Includes joint ventures and associates. Whe re a joint venture or associate has properties
outside its base country, those properties are not shown in this table.
[B] In several countries where “Shell operator ” is indicated, Shell is the operator of some but
not all exploration and/o r production ventures.
[C] Shell suspended all exploration and production activities in Syria in December 2011.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT IN OIL AND GAS
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
ACTIVITIES BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA $ MILLION
2014 2013
Oil and gas exploration andp r o d u c t i on
activities
Europe [A] 4,273 4,770
Asia 3,875 5,421
Oceania 5,068 6,237
Africa 2,825 2,639
North America – USA 8,210 9,155
North America – Canada 3,162 3,154
South America 1,109 4,158
Total 28,522 35,534
Other Upstream activities [B] 2,771 4,769
Total Upstream [C] 31,293 40,303
[A] Includes Greenland.
[B] Comprise LNG, GTL, trading and wind activities.
[C] See “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations” f or a reconciliation to capital expenditure.

STRATEGIC REPORT 33
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 UPSTREAM
AVERAGE REALISED PRICE BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA
OIL AND NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS $/BARREL
2014 2013 2012
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Europe 94.57 89.68 105.23 99.27 108.13 104.60
Asia 89.47 96.85 96.46 70.34 107.76 67.33
Oceania 82.26 88.07[A] 90.50 91.91[A] 91.62 90.14[A]
Africa 100.55 – 110.14 – 112.45 –
North America – USA 87.90 – 98.10[B] – 103.59 110.00
North America – Canada 59.19 – 63.14 – 68.31 –
South America 88.68 – 97.17 94.01 100.01 97.33
Total 91.09 95.87 99.83[B] 72.69 107.15 76.01
[A] Includes Shell’s 14% share of Woodside as from June 2014 (previously: 23% as from April 2012; 24% before that date), a publicly listed company on the Australian Securities Exchange. We
have limited access to data; accordingly, the numbers are estimated.
[B] Average realised prices have been corrected from $101.00/b (USA) and $100.42/b (Total).
NATURAL GAS $/THOUSAND SCF
2014 2013 2012
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Europe 8.58 8.26 10.29 9.17 9.48 9.64
Asia 4.57 11.50 4.51 10.73 4.81 10.13
Oceania 10.49 11.01[A] 11.55 9.45[A] 11.14 9.48[A]
Africa 2.71 – 2.84 – 2.74 –
North America – USA 4.52 – 3.92 – 3.17 7.88
North America – Canada 4.39 – 3.26 – 2.36 –
South America 2.85 – 2.91 0.42 2.63 1.04
Total 5.68 9.72 5.85 9.72 5.53 9.81
[A] Includes Shell’s 14% share of Woodside as from June 2014 (previously: 23% as from April 2012; 24% before that date), a publicly listed company on the Australian Securities Exchange. We
have limited access to data; accordingly, the numbers are estimated.
SYNTHETIC CRUDE OIL $/BARREL
2014 2013 2012
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
North America – Canada 81.83 87.24 81.46
BITUMEN $/BARREL
2014 2013 2012
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
North America – Canada 70.19 67.40 68.97

34 STRATEGIC REPORT
UPSTREAM SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
UPSTREAM CONTINUED
AVERAGE PRODUCTION COST BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA
OIL, NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS AND NATURAL GAS [A] $/BOE
2014 2013 2012
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Europe 19.47 4.25 17.66 3.57 14.50 3.56
Asia 7.87 7.62 6.52 5.74 7.53 4.71
Oceania 13.62 14.44[B] 11.55 13. 17[B] 9.06 16.97[B]
Africa 14.86 – 14.43 – 9.52 –
North America – USA 21.35 – 21.57 – 20.09 18.24
North America – Canada 22.96 – 22.20 – 19.47 –
South America 25.26 – 37.72 16.96 16.36 11.01
Total 15.10 6.68 14.35 5.52 12.47 6.05
[A] Natural gas volumes are converted to oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.
[B] Includes Shell’s 14% share of Woodside as from June 2014 (previously: 23% as from April 2012; 24% before that date), a publicly listed company on the Australian Securities Exchange. We
have limited access to data; accordingly, the numbers are estimated.
SYNTHETIC CRUDE OIL $/BARREL
2014 2013 2012
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
North America – Canada 42.46 41.81[A] 43.40[A]
[A] Average production costs have been corrected from $38.22/b (2013) and $40.40/b (2012).
BITUMEN $/BARREL
2014 2013 2012
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
North America – Canada 23.24 23.03 24.11

STRATEGIC REPORT 35
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 UPSTREAM
OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION (AVAILABLE FOR SALE)
CRUDE OIL AND NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS [A] THOUSAND BARRELS
2014 2013 2012
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Europe
Denmark 18,834 – 20,927 – 26,748 –
Italy 11,792 – 11,997 – 14,127 –
Norway 14,893 – 14,589 – 14,568 –
UK 14,746 – 14,445 – 22,075 –
Other [B] 849 1,986 934 1,952 1,031 1,592
Total Europe 61,114 1,986 62,892 1,952 78,549 1,592
Asia
Brunei 648 18,576 564 20,011 663 26,521
Iraq 19,218 – 8,416 – 2,032 –
Malaysia 16,754 – 15,441 – 14,916 –
Oman 74,781 – 74,527 – 75,075 –
Russia 23,579 10,403 25,152 10,527 – 38,180
United Arab Emirates – 2,397 – 58,104 – 53,103
Other [B] 27,165 8,115 25,202 8,155 19,668 8,341
Total Asia 162,145 39,491 149,302 96,797 112,354 126,145
Total Oceania 9,191 3,688 9,371 4,771 10,181 6,494
Africa
Gabon 12,144 – 10,781 – 13,957 –
Nigeria 69,851 – 63,800 – 87,592 –
Other [B] 5,008 – 4,254 – 4,477 –
Total Africa 87,003 – 78,835 – 106,026 –
North America
USA 98,895 – 86,670 – 56,630 24,540
Canada 8,389 – 7,626 – 5,456 –
Total North America 107,284 – 94,296 – 62,086 24,540
South America
Brazil 16,575 – 7,706 – 12,628 –
Other [B] 361 – 273 3,327 330 3,495
Total South America 16,936 – 7,979 3,327 12,958 3,495
Total 443,673 45,165 402,675 106,847 382,154 162,266
[A] Includes natural gas liquids. Royalty sales are excluded. Reflects 100% of production attributable to subsidiaries except in respect of PSCs, wh ere the figures shown represent the entitlement of
the subsidiaries concerned under those contracts.
[B] Comprises countries where 2014 production was lower than 7,300 thousand barrels or where specific disclosures are prohibited.

36 STRATEGIC REPORT
UPSTREAM SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
UPSTREAM CONTINUED
NATURAL GAS [A] MILLION STANDARD CUBIC FEET
2014 2013 2012
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
jointv entures
and associates
Europe
Denmark 49,708 – 53,283 – 73,809 –
Germany 66,718 – 73,123 – 79,558 –
Netherlands – 581,028 – 721,344 – 661,548
Norway 252,284 – 256,396 – 260,742 –
UK 104,346 – 109,470 – 120,212 –
Other [B] 15,840 – 15,409 – 15,849 –
Total Europe 488,896 581,028 507,681 721,344 550,170 661,548
Asia
Brunei 22,228 155,244 18,442 164,446 18,616 187,231
China 53,065 – 60,034 – 48,083 –
Malaysia 241,908 – 238,940 – 209,505 –
Russia 4,170 128,175 4,261 126,764 – 136,702
Other [B] 420,169 118,198 378,412 115,469 291,132 115,870
Total Asia 741,540 401,617 700,089 406,679 567,336 439,803
Oceania
Australia 132,801 87,830 125,654 100,707 128,869 88,834
New Zealand 69,052 – 61,407 – 66,627 –
Total Oceania 201,853 87,830 187,061 100,707 195,496 88,834
Africa
Egypt 54,079 – 46,072 – 51,589 –
Nigeria 234,599 – 201,311 – 271,051 –
Total Africa 288,678 – 247,383 – 322,640 –
North America
USA 360,846 – 394,538 – 388,647 1,816
Canada 214,756 – 231,897 – 225,265 –
Total North America 575,602 – 626,435 – 613,912 1,816
Total South America 12,449 – 11,896 444 16,213 377
Total 2,309,018 1,070,475 2,280,545 1,229,174 2,265,767 1,192,378
[A] Reflects 100% of production attributable to subsidiaries except in res pect of PSCs, where the figures shown represent the entitlement of the comp anies concerned under those contracts.
[B] Comprises countries where 2014 production was lower than 41,795 million scf or where specific disclosures are prohibited.
SYNTHETIC CRUDE OIL THOUSAND BARRELS
2014 2013 2012
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
North America – Canada 46,934 46,017 45,903
BITUMEN THOUSAND BARRELS
2014 2013 2012
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
North America – Canada 5,779 6,903 7,401

STRATEGIC REPORT 37
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 UPSTREAM
LNG AND GTL PLANTS AT DECEMBER 31, 2014
LNG LIQUEFACTION PLANTS IN OPERATION
Location
Shell
interest (%)[A]
100% capacity
(mtpa)[B]
Atlantic LNG Point Fortin 20-25 14.8
Australia North West Shelf Karratha 19 16.3
Australia Pluto 1 Karratha 12 4.3
Brunei LNG Lumut 25 7.8
Malaysia LNG (Dua) [C] Bintulu 15 9.6
Malaysia LNG (Tiga) Bintulu 15 7.7
Nigeria LNG Bonny 26 22.0
Oman LNG Sur 30 7.1
Peru LNG Pampa Melchorita 20 4.5
Qalhat (Oman)L N G Sur 11 3.7
Qatargas 4 Ras Laffan 30 7.8
Sakhalin LNG Prigorodnoye 27.5 9.6
[A] Interest may be held via indirect shareholding.
[B] As reported by the operator.
[C] Our interest in the Dua plant is due to expire in 2015.
LNG LIQUEFACTION PLANTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
Location
Shell
interest (%)
100% capacity
(mtpa)
Gorgon Barrow Island 25 15.3
MMLS LNG Moveable units [A] 49 2.5
Prelude Offshore Australia 67.5 3.6
[A] Location pending final investment decision.
GTL PLANTS IN OPERATION
Country
Shell
interest (%)
100% capacity
(b/d)
Bintulu Malaysia 72 14,700
Pearl Qatar 100 140,000
EQUITY LNG SALES VOLUMES
SHELL SHARE OF EQUITY LNG SALES VOLUMES MILLION TONNES
2014 2013 2012
Australia 3.7 3.7 3.6
Brunei 1.5 1.7 1.7
Malaysia 2.7 2.6 2.5
Nigeria 5.0 4.4 5.1
Oman 1.8 2.0 1.9
Peru 0.8 – –
Qatar 2.4 2.3 2.4
Sakhalin 2.9 2.9 3.0
Trinidad and Tobago 3.2 – –
Total 24.0 19.6 20.2

38 STRATEGIC REPORT
UPSTREAM SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
UPSTREAM CONTINUED
EARNINGS AND CASH FLOW INFORMATION
2014 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope[A] Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Other Total
Revenue 17,891 35,629 3,299 11,129 13,553 9,250 1,548 92,299
Share of profit of jointv entures and
associates 1,128 3,173 266 937 (4) 77 (75) 5,502
Interest and other income 68 845 2,292 503 327 (71) 65 4,029
Total revenue ando t h e rincome 19,087 39,647 5,857 12,569 13,876 9,256 1,538 101,830
Purchases excludingt a x e s 5,848 10,113 344 1,505 1,909 3,383 (63) 23,039
Production and manufacturinge x p enses 3,255 4,905 809 2,483 4,572 3,391 678 20,093
Taxes other than incomet a x 264 948 211 836 201 – 165 2,625
Selling, distribution anda dministrative
expenses 777 103 9 1 136 7 22 1,055
Research andd e v e l o pment 642 28 – – 134 51 – 855
Exploration 458 1,331 232 307 1,548 88 260 4,224
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation 1,815 4,621 430 2,054 6,665 1,808 475 17,868
Interest expense 364 90 55 144 211 60 29 953
Incomeb efore taxation 5,664 17,508 3,767 5,239 (1,500) 468 (28) 31,118
Taxation 3,599 7,542 2,103 2,416 (626) 78 165 15,277
Incomea fter taxation 2,065 9,966 1,664 2,823 (874) 390 (193) 15,841
Net cash from operating activities 3,975 14,619 1,684 4,629 3,935 2,685 312 31,839
Less: working capital movements 1,148 (1,470) (845) 616 (994) 360 (285) (1,470)
Net cash from operating activities
excludingw o r k ing capital movements 2,827 16,089 2,529 4,013 4,929 2,325 597 33,309
[A] Includes Greenland.
2013 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope[A] Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Other Total
Revenue 23,144 35,916 3,414 11,007 9,762 8,878 748 92,869
Share of profit of jointv entures and
associates 1,469 3,235 111 1,162 1 55 87 6,120
Interest and other income (123) 572 172 (14) 20 52 (20) 659
Total revenue ando t h e rincome 24,490 39,723 3,697 12,155 9,783 8,985 815 99,648
Purchases excludingt a x e s 9,088 9,761 290 1,378 (1,175) 2,989 48 22,379
Production and manufacturinge x p enses 2,998 4,162 762 1,978 4,588 3,594 389 18,471
Taxes other than incomet a x 328 1,254 226 963 223 – 85 3,079
Selling, distribution anda dministrative
expenses 993 85 7 1 47 26 35 1,194
Research andd e v e l o pment 648 15 – – 178 106 – 947
Exploration 627 1,082 396 354 1,790 312 717 5,278
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation 1,444 3,114 434 1,293 7,954 2,550 160 16,949
Interest expense 359 76 47 133 210 61 24 910
Incomeb efore taxation 8,005 20,174 1,535 6,055 (4,032) (653) (643) 30,441
Taxation 4,883 10,977 475 3,100 (1,500) (203) 71 17,803
Incomea fter taxation 3,122 9,197 1,060 2,955 (2,532) (450) (714) 12,638
Net cash from operating activities 5,215 12,834 1,717 5,027 3,775 1,414 132 30,114
Less: working capital movements 1,251 (88) (929) 1,391 (86) (346) 119 1,312
Net cash from operating activities
excludingw o r k ing capital movements 3,964 12,922 2,646 3,636 3,861 1,760 13 28,802
[A] Includes Greenland.

STRATEGIC REPORT 39
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 UPSTREAM
2012 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope[A] Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Other Total
Revenue 26,569 31,438 3,463 14,966 8,657 8,003 1,454 94,550
Share of profit of jointv entures and
associates 1,667 3,866 395 950 1,150 25 (52) 8,001
Interest ando t h e rincome 70 793 2,107 984 569 149 164 4,836
Total revenue ando t h e rincome 28,306 36,097 5,965 16,900 10,376 8,177 1,566 107,387
Purchases excludingt a x e s 10,689 8,699 277 1,878 659 2,958 85 25,245
Production and manufacturinge x p enses 2,651 3,761 834 1,915 3,477 3,434 282 16,354
Taxes other than incomet a x 350 410 318 1,248 39 – 144 2,509
Selling, distribution anda dministrative
expenses 843 196 4 3 126 19 20 1,211
Research and development 595 16 – – 135 121 2 869
Exploration 398 460 175 699 802 372 198 3,104
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation 1,583 1,903 306 1,277 3,930 2,072 316 11,387
Interest expense 311 68 34 116 170 53 22 774
Incomeb efore taxation 10,886 20,584 4,017 9,764 1,038 (852) 497 45,934
Taxation 6,421 11,205 1,095 5,361 (121) (408) 137 23,690
Incomea fter taxation 4,465 9,379 2,922 4,403 1,159 (444) 360 22,244
Net cash from operating activities 6,677 11,457 2,107 6,615 4,483 1,047 675 33,061
Less: working capital movements 18 (587) 469 (410) 526 (73) 167 110
Net cash from operating activities
excludingw o r k ing capital movements 6,659 12,044 1,638 7,025 3,957 1,120 508 32,951
[A] Includes Greenland.

40 STRATEGIC REPORT
DOWNSTREAM SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
DOWNSTREAM
KEY STATISTICS $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Segmente a rnings [A] 3,411 3,869 5,382
Including:
Revenue (includingi nter-segments a l e s ) 378,046 404,427 424,410
Share of earnings of jointv entures and associates [A] 1,698 1,525 1,354
Production and manufacturinge x p enses 9,845 9,807 9,539
Selling, distribution anda dministrative expenses 12,489 13,114 12,860
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation 6,619 4,421 3,083
Net capital investment[ B ] 3,079 4,885 4,275
Refinery availability (%) [C] 94 92 93
Chemical plant availability (%) [C] 85 92 91
Refinery processingi ntake (thousandb / d ) 2,903 2,915 2,819
Oil products sales volumes (thousandb / d ) 6,365 6,164 6,235
Chemicals sales volumes (thousandt onnes) 17,008 17,386 18,669
[A] See Notes 2 and 4 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”. S egment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis.
[B] See “Non-GAAP measures reconciliation”.
[C] The basis of calculation differs from that used for the “Refinery and ch emical plant availability” measure in “Performance indicators”, which ex cludes downtime due to un controllable factors.
OVERVIEW
Shell’s Downstream organisation is made up of a number of different
business activities, part of an integrated value chain, that collectively
turn crude oil into a range of refined products, which are moved and
marketed around the world for domestic, industrial and transport use.
The products we sell include gasoline, diesel, heating oil, aviation
fuel, marine fuel, liquefied natural gas (LNG) for transport, lubricants,
bitumen, sulphur and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). In addition, we
produce and sell petrochemicals for industrial use worldwide.
Our Downstream activities comprise Refining, Pipelines, Marketing,
Chemicals and Trading and Supply. Marketing includes Retail,
Lubricants, Business to Business (B2B) and Alternative Energies.
Chemicals has major manufacturing pl ants, located close to refineries,
and its own marketing network. In Trading and Supply, we trade crude
oil, oil products and petrochemicals, to optimise feedstocks for Refining
and Chemicals, to supply our Marketing businesses and third parties,
and for our own profit.
BUSINESS CONDITIONS
Industry refining margins wer e higher on average in 2014 than in
2013 in the key refining hubs of the USA and Singapore, and were
little changed in Europe. In particular, margins improved in the USA
where increased domestic crude oil and natural gas production
lowered oil acquisition costs (relative to international prices). Some
demand growth, especially around the summer driving season in the
USA, also contributed to higher US Gulf Coast margins.
In 2015, increased demand for middle distillates is expected to be a
key driver of refining margins, supported by demand for gasoline in
the middle of the year. However, the overall outlook remains unclear
because of continuing economic uncertainty, geopolitical tensions in
some regions that could lead to supply disruptions and overcapacity in
the global refining market.
In Chemicals, industry naphtha c racker margins increased from 2013,
particularly in Asia where there was less cracker capacity available.
US ethane cracker margins were high relative to naphtha cracker
margins in other regions due to ample ethane supply. The outlook for
petrochemicals for 2015 is depen dent on the growth of the global
economy, especially in Asia, and developments in raw material prices.
EARNINGS 2014-2013
Segment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis
(see “Summary of results”), which in 2014 were $4,366 million higher
than earnings if presented on fi rst-in, first-out basis (2013:
$353 million higher). Seg ment earnings in 2014 were
$3,411 million, 12% lower than 2013. Earnings in 2014 included
net charges of $2,854 million, ma inly impairments, and in 2013
included net charges of $597 million, described at the end of this
section. Excluding the impact of t hese net charges, earnings in 2014
were 40% higher. The improvement was driven by higher realised
refining margins from improved operating performance and a stronger
industry environment, higher earnings from Trading and Supply, and
lower costs mainly as a result of divestments. Partly offsetting these
benefits were lower earnings fro mC h e m i c a l s ,i m p a c t e db ym a r k e t
conditions for intermediate products and shutdowns of some units at
Moerdijk in the Netherlands.
Refining made a profit in 2014, compared with a loss in 2013.
Realised refining margins were signi ficantly higher overall and higher
in all regions except the US West Coast. The increase was driven by
operational improvements and stronger industry margin environments in
most regions. In Europe, despite a slightly weaker margin environment,
realised margins benefited from strong operational performances at the
Pernis and Rheinland sites. Realised margins in Canada were higher in
2014 because the Scotford Upgrader was shut for part of 2013.
US Gulf Coast realised margins benefited from improved operational
performance. The margin environment in Asia improved. There was a
loss of margins from the Geelong refinery in Australia which was sold
in 2014. US West Coast realised margins were lower mainly due to a
maintenance shutdown at Puget S ound in 2014. Motiva’s performance
was stronger in 2014 through both i mproved operatio nal performance
and a stronger margin environment. Overall refinery availability
increased to 94% from 92% in 2013.
Trading and Supply earnings wer e significantly higher than 2013,
benefiting from increased price volatility and profitable short positions in
an oil market where prices declin ed during the second half of 2014.
Chemicals earnings were lower than in 2013, impacted by two
incidents at Moerdijk that disrupted operations. The first, an explosion
and fire at the MSPO2 unit, caused a partial shutdown of the site but
had only limited financial impact. The second incident, a contamination
of the steam boiler water feed, caused a temporary shutdown of all units
for the fourth quarter of 2014 with more significant financial impact.

STRATEGIC REPORT 41
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DOWNSTREAM
We expect a significant impact t o earnings in 2015 from some units
continuing to be non-operational. Additionally, earnings decreased for
intermediate products due to weaker general market conditions
compared with 2013. Sales price s were higher in 2013 due to
industry supply constraints caused by competitor production outages.
Marketing earnings were higher t han in 2013 across most businesses
despite the divestment of businesses in Australia and Italy. Driving the
improvement were stronger unit margins, helped by premium product
pricing in Retail, active price management in Lubricants and LPG, and
lower costs in Retail. Earnings from Raizen, our biofuels joint venture in
Brazil, were higher than in 2013 de spite the negative effects of the
weakening Brazilian real, mainly as a result of stronger unit margins in
the Marketing business.
Oil products sales volumes were 3% higher than in 2013. Higher
Trading volumes more than offset lower Marketing volumes, which
were impacted by the sale of businesses in Australia and Italy.
Excluding these portfolio effects, Marketing volumes were similar to
2013.
Chemicals sales volumes were 2% lower than in 2013, mainly as a
result of plant outages at Moerdijk. Chemicals plant availability
decreased to 85% from 92% in 2013, mainly due to these outages.
Overall, operating expenses wer e 3% lower than in 2013. Production
and manufacturing expenses wer e similar to 2013 as the effects of
inflation and higher maintenance c osts were offset by more favourable
exchange rates and divestments. Selling, distribution and
administrative expenses decreased due to divestments, reduced
spending related to lower volu mes in some businesses and more
favourable exchange rates.
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation significantly increased in
2014 compared with 2013, mainly due to impairments described
below. Excluding the impairments, depreciation decreased compared
with 2013 due to divestments and red uced depreciation from impaired
assets.
Segment earnings in 2014 includ ed a net charge of $2,854 million,
primarily from impairments (mainly in respect of refineries in Asia and
Europe) and also from restructuring charges, fair value accounting of
commodity derivatives and a provision connected to a prior year sale
obligation. Partly offsetting these charges was a gain related to Dutch
pension plan amendments.
Segment earnings in 2013 included a net charge of $597 million,
resulting primarily from impairments and deferred tax adjustments
which were partly offset by a beneficial tax rate change in the UK and
gains on divestments.
EARNINGS 2013-2012
Segment earnings in 2013 were $3, 869 million, 28% lower than in
2012. Segment earnings were 16% lower excluding the impact of the
net charge of $597 million in 2013 described above and the net gain
of $39 million in 2012 resulting from net gains on divestments and a
tax credit, partly offset by legal and environmental provisions. The 16%
decrease was mostly due to Refining making a loss, due to weaker
margins, which was partly offset by higher contributions from
Chemicals and Trading. Contributions from Marketing were broadly
similar to 2012.
Realised refining margins were sig nificantly lower than in 2012 due to
a deterioration in industry conditions. Industry refining margins were
l o w e ri na l lr e g i o n s ,e x c e p tf o rUS Gulf Coast margins which were
slightly higher. Lower US West Coast margins in 2013 reflected an
excess supply of gasoline in the r egion. Margins in 2013 were also
impacted by a narrower spread between the Brent and West Texas
Intermediate (WTI) crude oil price benchmarks, as an expansion in
pipeline capacity increased the ability to move oil from the landlocked
area of Cushing, Oklahoma, where WTI is delivered. In Europe,
margins remained weak due to: low regional demand; increased
imports from Asia, Russia and the USA; and limited export
opportunities to the USA due to high gasoline inventories there.
Margins in Asia-Pacific were impacted by excess capacity and weak
demand due to an economic slowdown.
NET CAPITAL INVESTMENT
Net capital investment was $3.1 billion in 2014 compared with
$4.9 billion in 2013. The decrease was primarily due to higher
divestment proceeds, which were $2.8 billion in 2014 compared with
$0.6 billion in 2013.
Capital investment was $5.9 billion in 2014 compared with
$5.5 billion in 2013. In Refining and Chemicals, it increased by $0.5
billion to $3.7 billion and in Marketing it decreased by $0.1 billion to
$2.2 billion. In 2014, 54% of our capital investment was used to
maintain the integrity and performance of our asset base, compared
with 61% in 2013.
PORTFOLIO ACTIONS
In Pipelines, we formed Shell Midstream Partners, L.P. (see “Business
and property – Pipelines” in this section).
In Lubricants, with our joint-venture partner Hyundai Oilbank, we
opened a base oil manufacturing plant in Daesan, South Korea (Shell
interest 40%). The plant has the capacity to produce some
13 thousand barrels of AP1 Group II base oils per day. The first batch
of base oil was successfully blended in the Zhapu lubricant oil
blending plant in China in August 2014. Shell will take a majority of
the output from this plant in the first few years which will significantly
increase the volume of Group II base oils for our supply chain in the
region.
In Chemicals, Shell has taken full control of Ellba Eastern (Pte) Ltd,
through the acquisition of the outstanding 50% interest. The company,
which was already operated by Shel l, produces styrene monomer and
propylene oxide. The buyout enables integration with and optimisation
of Shell’s existing asset base on Jurong Island, in Singapore, allowing
for future growth. With our partner Qatar Petroleum, we have decided
not to proceed with the Al Karaana petrochemicals project in Qatar.
Our Raízen joint venture in Brazil has commissioned a second-
generation biofuels plant, which wi ll use technology from Iogen Energy
to produce about 40 million litres of cellulosic ethanol a year from
leaves, bark and other sugar cane waste. Additionally, Raizen
acquired the fuel distributor Distri buidora Latina and its 200-plus retail
stations.
We continued to review our portfolio to divest positions that fail to
deliver competitive performance or no longer meet our longer-term
strategic objectives.
We sold the majority of our Downstream businesses in Australia and
Italy. In Australia we retained the aviation business; in Italy we retained
the lubricants business.
We sold our shareholdings in the Kralupy and Litvinov refineries in the
Czech Republic. We announced the intention to explore viable options
for the Port Dickson refinery in Malaysia (Shell interest 51%), including
the potential sale or conversion of operations to a storage terminal.
We signed an agreement to sell our retail, commercial fuels and
bitumen businesses and supply terminals in Norway to ST1. They will
continue to operate under the Shell brand. We intend to continue to

42 STRATEGIC REPORT
DOWNSTREAM SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
DOWNSTREAM CONTINUED
operate the aviation business as a joint venture with ST1. The Gasnor,
marine and lubricants businesses are not included in the agreement.
We have announced our intention to sell the Fredericia refinery, retail,
aviation and commercial fuels businesses in Denmark. We intend to
continue to sell lubricants via a distributor.
BUSINESS AND PROPERTY
Refining
We have interests in 24 refineries worldwide with the capacity to
process a total of over 3.1 million barrels of crude oil per day (Shell
share). Approximately 35% of our refining capacity is in Europe and
Africa, with 39% in the Americas and 26% in Asia and Oceania.
The Port Arthur refinery in Texas, USA, owned by Motiva Enterprises LLC
(Shell interest 50%), is the largest refinery in North America and includes
one of the world’s largest single-site base oil manufacturing plants.
Pipeli nes
Shell Pipeline Company owns and operates seven tank farms across
the USA and transports more than 1.5 billion barrels of crude oil and
refined products a year through 3,800 miles of pipelines in the Gulf of
Mexico and five US states. Our various non-operated ownership
interests provide a further 8,000 pipeline miles and offer opportunities
for sharing best practices with other pipeline operators.
We carry more than 40 types of crude oil and more than 20 grades of
gasoline, as well as diesel fuel, aviation fuel, chemicals and ethylene.
Shell Midstream Partners L.P., was formed to own, operate, develop
and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets, and was listed on
the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “SHLX” on
October 29, 2014. The partnership ’s initial assets, which include a
portion of Shell’s interest in four pipelines that transport crude oil and
refined products offshore from the Gulf of Mexico and along the US
Gulf Coast and East Coast, consist of interests in entities that own
crude oil and refined products pipelines which serve as key
infrastructure for transporting growing volumes of oil, produced
onshore and offshore, to Gulf Coast refining markets. It also delivers
refined products from those refineries to major demand centres. Shell
controls the general partner and holds a majority share in the limited
partnership.
Marketi ng
RETAIL
There were close to 43,000 Shell-branded retail stations in over
70 countries at the end of 2014. We have more than 100 years’
experience in fuel development. In recent years, we have concentrated
on developing fuels with special formulations designed to clean
engines and improve performance. We sell such fuels under the Shell
V-Power brand in more than 60 countries.
LUBRICANTS
Across approximately 100 countries we make, market or sell
technically-advanced lubricants no t only for passenger cars, trucks and
coaches but also for industrial machinery in the manufacturing, mining,
power generation, agriculture and construction sectors.
We lead the global market in branded lubricants. Our passenger car
and heavy-duty engine oil brands are the most popular in the USA and
China – the world’s largest markets for lubricants.
W eh a v eag l o b a ll u b r i c a n t ss u p p l yc h a i nw i t han e t w o r ko fe i g h t
base oil manufacturing plants, 50 lubricant blending plants, 18 grease
plants and four gas-to-liquids base oil storage hubs.
Through our marine activities we primarily provide lubricants, but also
fuels and related technical services, to the shipping and maritime
sectors. We supply almost 100 grades of lubricants and 10 types of
fuel to vessels worldwide, ranging from large ocean-going tankers to
small fishing boats.
BUSINESS TO BUSINESS
Our Business to Business (B2B) activities encompass the sale of fuels
and speciality products and services to a broad range of commercial
customers.
Shell Aviation fuels more than 7,000 aircraft every day at
approximately 800 airports in around 40 countries. On average, we
refuel an aircraft every 12 seconds.
Shell Gas (LPG) provides liquefied petroleum gas and related services
to retail, commercial and industrial customers for cooking, heating,
lighting and transport.
Shell Commercial Fuels provides transport, industrial and heating fuels.
Our range of products, from reliable main-grade fuels to premium
products, can offer tangible benefits. These include fuel economy,
enhanced equipment performance, r eduction in maintenance frequency
and costs as well as environmental benefits, such as reduced
emissions. We continue to pursue opportunities in the LNG for
transport sector, developing projects that provide us and our customers
with the best commercial value. Shell is the first customer of a new,
dedicated LNG for transport infrastructure at the Gas Access to Europe
(Gate) terminal in the port of Rotterdam in the Netherlands. Shell has
committed to buy capacity from the Gate terminal, which has enabled
investment in the terminal expansion.
Shell Bitumen supplies on average 11,000 tonnes of products every
day to 1,600 customers worldwide and invests in technology research
and development to create innovative products.
Shell Sulphur Solutions is a business which manages the complete
value chain of sulphur, from refi ning to marketing. The business
provides sulphur for industries such as mining and textiles and also
develops new products which incorporate sulphur, such as fertilisers.
ALTERNATIVE ENERGIES
Raízen, our joint venture in Brazil, produces ethanol from sugar cane,
and manages a retail network. With an annual production capacity of
more than 2 billion litres, it is one of the largest biofuel producers in
the world. We investigate alternative energy technologies with a long-
term view to develop them into profitable business opportunities. We
were one of the first companies to invest in advanced biofuels and
continue to research and explore the potential of hydrogen as a fuel.
Chemicals
MANUFACTURING
Our plants produce a range of base chemicals, including ethylene,
propylene and aromatics, as well as intermediate chemicals, such as
styrene monomer, propylene oxide, solvents, detergent alcohols,
ethylene oxide and ethylene glycol .W eh a v et h ec a p a c i t yt op r o d u c e
nearly 6 million tonnes of ethylene a year.

STRATEGIC REPORT 43
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DOWNSTREAM
MARKETING
We sell petrochemicals to about 1,000 major industrial customers
worldwide. Our Chemicals busine ss is one of the top 10 chemicals
enterprises in the world by revenue. Its products are used to make
numerous everyday items, from clothing and cars to detergents and
bicycle helmets.
Tradinga nd Supply
We trade in physical and financial contracts, lease storage and
transportation capacities, and manage shipping activities globally.
With more than 1,500 storage tanks and approximately
150 distribution facilities in around 25 countries, our supply and
distribution infrastructure is well positioned to make deliveries around
the world. This includes supplying feedstocks for our refineries and
chemical plants and finished products such as gasoline, diesel and
aviation fuel to our Marketing businesses and customers.
DOWNSTREAM BUSINESS ACTIVITIES WITH IRAN,
SUDAN AND SYRIA
Iran
Shell transactions with Iran are disclosed separately. See
“Section 13(r) of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Disclosure”.
Sudan
We ceased all operational activities in Sudan in 2008. We have,
however, continued soil remed iation in 2014 related to earlier
operations in the country.
Syria
We are in compliance with all EU and US sanctions. We supply
limited quantities of polyols via a Netherlands-based distributor to
private sector customers in Syria. Polyols are commonly used for the
production of foam in mattresses and soft furnishings.
DOWNSTREAM DATA TABLES
The tables below reflect Shell subsidiaries, the 50% Shell interest in
Motiva in the USA and instances where Shell owns the crude oil or
feedstocks processed by a refinery. Other joint ventures and associates
are only included where explicitly stated.
OIL PRODUCTS – COST OF CRUDE OIL
PROCESSED OR CONSUMED [A] $ PER BARREL
2014 2013 2012
Total 82.76 90.36 106.82
[A] Includes Upstream margin on crude oil supplied by Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and
associates.
CRUDE DISTILLATION
CAPACITY [A] THOUSAND B/CALENDAR DAY [B]
2014 2013 2012
Europe 1,033 1,033 1,084
Asia 810 810 664
Oceania 80 118 158
Africa 82 82 83
Americas 1,212 1,212 1,212
Total 3,217 3,255 3,201
[A] Average operating capacity for the year, excluding mothballed capacity.
[B] Calendar day capacity is the maximum sust ainable capacity adjusted for normal unit
downtime.
ETHYLENE CAPACITY [A] THOUSAND TONNES/YEAR
2014 2013 2012
Europe 1,659 1,659 1,659
Asia 1,922 1,922 1,922
Oceania –––
Africa –––
Americas 2,212 2,212 2,212
Total 5,793 5,793 5,793
[A] Includes the Shell share of capacity entitlem ent (offtake rights) of joint ventures and
associates, which may be different from nominal equity interest. Nominal capacity is quoted as
at December 31.
OIL PRODUCTS – CRUDE OIL
PROCESSED [A] THOUSAND B/D
2014 2013 2012
Europe 941 1,010 1,069
Asia 688 706 761
Oceania 59 116 93
Africa 69 61 70
Americas 1,149 1,100 1,024
Total 2,906 2,993 3,017
[A] Includes natural gas liquids, share of joi nt ventures and associates and processing for
others.
REFINERY PROCESSING
INTAKE [A] THOUSAND B/D
2014 2013 2012
Crude oil 2,716 2,732 2,620
Feedstocks 187 183 199
Total 2,903 2,915 2,819
Europe 941 933 970
Asia 639 634 520
Oceania 64 105 150
Africa 69 54 62
Americas 1,190 1,189 1,117
Total 2,903 2,915 2,819
[A] Includes crude oil, natural gas liquids and f eedstocks processed in crude distillation units
and in secondary conversion units.
REFINERY PROCESSING
OUTTURN [A] THOUSAND B/D
2014 2013 2012
Gasolines 1,049 1,049 995
Kerosines 331 368 321
Gas/Diesel oils 1,047 1,014 996
Fuel oil 316 274 256
Other 395 389 452
Total 3,138 3,094 3,020
[A] Excludes “own use” and products a cquired for blending purposes.

44 STRATEGIC REPORT
DOWNSTREAM SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
DOWNSTREAM CONTINUED
OIL PRODUCT SALES VOLUMES [A] THOUSAND B/D
2014 2013 2012
Europe
Gasolines 405 415 450
Kerosines 264 226 234
Gas/Diesel oils 841 962 909
Fuel oil 176 194 180
Other products 205 168 184
Total 1,891 1,965 1,957
Asia
Gasolines 343 325 352
Kerosines 191 191 172
Gas/Diesel oils 515 483 515
Fuel oil 325 322 355
Other products 441 255 220
Total 1,815 1,576 1,614
Oceania
Gasolines 52 87 93
Kerosines 48 51 48
Gas/Diesel oils 64 115 107
Fuel oil –– 4
Other products 10 19 26
Total 174 272 278
Africa
Gasolines 36 45 58
Kerosines 99 1 6
Gas/Diesel oils 52 43 53
Fuel oil –39
Other products 71 51 3
Total 104 115 149
Americas
Gasolines 1,268 1,149 1,123
Kerosines 206 234 264
Gas/Diesel oils 583 519 528
Fuel oil 68 96 89
Other products 256 238 233
Total 2,381 2,236 2,237
Total product sales [B]
Gasolines 2,104 2,021 2,076
Kerosines 718 711 734
Gas/Diesel oils 2,055 2,122 2,112
Fuel oil 569 615 637
Other products 919 695 676
Total 6,365 6,164 6,235
[A] Excludes deliveries to other companies under reciprocal sale and purchase arrangements,
which are in the nature of exchanges. Sales of condensate and natural gas liquids are
included.
[B] Certain contracts are held for trading pu rposes and reported net rather than gross. The
effect in 2014 was a reduction in oil product sales of 1,067,000 b/d (2013: 921,000 b/d;
2012: 856,000 b/d).
CHEMICALS SALES VOLUMES [A] THOUSAND TONNES
2014 2013 2012
Europe
Base chemicals 3,287 3,423 3,771
First-line derivatives ando t h e r s 2,019 2,281 2,626
Total 5,306 5,704 6,397
Asia
Base chemicals 2,220 2,266 2,588
First-line derivatives ando t h e r s 2,901 2,989 3,074
Total 5,121 5,255 5,662
Oceania
Base chemicals –––
First-line derivatives ando t h e r s 35 62 75
Total 35 62 75
Africa
Base chemicals –––
First-line derivatives ando t h e r s 43 47 54
Total 43 47 54
Americas
Base chemicals 3,251 3,218 3,336
First-line derivatives ando t h e r s 3,252 3,100 3,145
Total 6,503 6,318 6,481
Total product sales
Base chemicals 8,758 8,907 9,695
First-line derivatives ando t h e r s 8,250 8,479 8,974
Total 17,008 17,386 18,669
[A] Excludes feedstock trading and by-products.

STRATEGIC REPORT 45
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DOWNSTREAM
MANUFACTURING PLANTS AT DECEMBER 31, 2014
REFINERIES IN OPERATION
Thousand barrels/calendar day, 100% capacity[B]
Location
Asset
class
Shell
interest (%)[A]
Crude
distillation
capacity
Thermal
cracking/
visbreaking/
coking
Catalytic
cracking
Hydro-
cracking
Europe
Denmark Fredericia Š 100 63 40 – –
Germany Harburg Š 100 58 14 – –
Miro [C] 32 310 65 89 –
Rheinland /H18546Š 100 325 44 – 80
Schwedt [C] 38 220 47 50 –
Netherlands Pernis /H18546Š 100 404 45 48 81
Asia
Japan Mizue (Toa) [C] Š/ 18 64 24 38 –
Yamaguchi [C] / 13 110 – 25 –
Yokkaichi [C] Š/ 26 234 – 55 –
Malaysia Port Dickson / 51 107 – 39 –
Pakistan Karachi [C] 30 43 – – –
Philippines Tabangao 67 96 31 – –
Saudi Arabia Al Jubail [C] Š/ 50 292 85 – 45
Singapore Pulau Bukom /H18546Š 100 462 77 34 55
Africa
South Africa Durban [C] / 38 165 23 34 –
Americas
Argentina Buenos Aires Š/ 100 100 18 20 –
Canada
Alberta Scotford / 100 92 – – 62
Ontario Sarnia / 100 71 5 19 9
USA
California Martinez Š 100 144 42 65 37
Louisiana Convent [C] / 50 227 – 82 45
Norco [C] /H18546 50 229 25 107 39
Texas Deer Park /H18546Š 50 312 79 63 53
Port Arthur [C] Š 50 569 138 81 67
Washington Puget Sound Š/ 100 137 23 52 –
[A] Shell interest rounded to nearest whole percentag e point; Shell share of production capacity may differ.
[B] Calendar day capacity is the maximum sustain able capacity adjusted for normal unit downtime.
[C] Not operated by Shell.
/H18546Integrated refinery and chemical complex.
Š Refinery complex with cogeneration capacity.
/ Refinery complex with chemical unit(s).

46 STRATEGIC REPORT
DOWNSTREAM SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
DOWNSTREAM CONTINUED
MAJOR CHEMICAL PLANTS IN OPERATION [A]
Thousandt onnes/year, Shell share capacity
Location Ethylene
Styrene
monomer
Ethylene
glycol
Higher
olefins[B]
Additional
products
Europe
Germany Rheinland 272 – – – A
Netherlands Moerdijk [C] 972 725 155 – A, I
UK Mossmorran [D] 415 – – – –
Stanlow [D] ––– 3 3 0 I
Asia
China Nanhai [D] 475 320 175 – A, I, P
Japan Yamaguchi [D] ––– 1 1 A , I
Saudi Arabia Al Jubail [D] 366 400 – – A, O
Singapore Jurong Island 281 1,069 1,005 – A, I, P, O
Pulau Bukom 800 – – – A, I
Americas
Canada Scotford – 485 520 – A, I
USA Deer Park 836 – – – A, I
Geismar – – 400 920 I
Norco 1,376 – – – A
Total 5,793 2,999 2,255 1,261
[A] Shell share of capacity of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associ ates (Shell and non-Shell operated) , excluding capacity of the Infineum a dditives joint ventures.
[B] Higher olefins are linear alpha and intern al olefins (products range from C6-C2024).
[C] Due to a fire and separate breakdown of the steam boilers in 2014, Moerdijk was not fully in operation at December 31, 2014.
[D] Not operated by Shell.
A Aromatics, lower olefins.
I Intermediates.
P Polyethylene, polypropylene.
OO t h e r .
OTHER CHEMICAL LOCATIONS
Location Products
Europe
Germany Karlsruhe A
Schwedt A
Netherlands Pernis A, I, O
Asia
Japan Kawasaki A, I
Yokkaichi A
Malaysia Bintulu I
Port Dickson A
Africa
South Africa Durban I
Americas
Argentina Buenos Aires I
Canada Sarnia A, I
USA Martinez O
Mobile A
Puget Sound I
A Aromatics, lower olefins.
I Intermediates.
OO t h e r .

STRATEGIC REPORT 47
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CORPORATE
CORPORATE
EARNINGS $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Net interest andi nvestmente x p ense (913) (832) (1,001)
Foreign exchange (losses)/gains (263) (189) 169
Other – including taxation 1,020 1,393 629
Segmente a rnings (156) 372 (203)
OVERVIEW
The Corporate segment covers the non-operating activities supporting
Shell. It comprises Shell’s holdings and treasury organisation, including
its self-insurance activities as well as its headquarters and central
functions. All finance expense and income as well as related taxes are
included in the Corporate segment earnings rather than in the earnings
of the business segments.
The holdings and treasury organisation manages many of the
Corporate entities and is the point of contact between Shell and the
external capital markets. It conducts a broad range of transactions –
from raising debt instruments to transacting foreign exchange. Treasury
centres in London, Singapore and Rio de Janeiro support these
activities.
Headquarters and central functions provide business support in the
areas of communications, finance, health, human resources,
information technology, legal services, real estate and security. They
also provide support for the shareholder-related activities of the
Company. The central functions are supported by business service
centres located around the world which process transactions, manage
data and produce statutory returns, among other services. The majority
of the headquarters and central-fun ction costs are recovered from the
business segments. Those costs that are not recovered are retained in
Corporate.
EARNINGS 2014-2012
Segment earnings for 2014 were a loss of $156 million, compared
with a gain of $372 million in 2013 and a loss of $203 million in
2012.
Net interest and investment expense increased by $81 million between
2013 and 2014. Interest expense was higher, mostly driven by new
bond issuances and additional finance leases, including those
assumed as a result of the acquisition of Repsol LNG businesses. These
effects were partly offset by an improvement in the liquidity premium
associated with currency swaps. In 2013, net interest and investment
expense decreased by $169 million compared with 2012. Interest
e x p e n s ew a sl o w e r ,m o s t l yd r i v e nb ya ni n c r e a s ei nt h ea m o u n to f
interest capitalised due to the continued ramp-up of projects in
Australia and the Gulf of Mexico, and an improvement in the liquidity
premium associated with currency swaps. These effects were partly
offset by lower interest income.
Foreign exchange losses of $263 million in 2014 (2013: losses of
$189 million; 2012: gains of $169 million) were mainly due to the
impact of exchange rates on non-functional currency loans and cash
balances in operating units.
Other earnings decreased by $373 million in 2014 compared with
2013, mainly due to lower tax credits. In 2013, other earnings were
$764 million higher than in 2012, ma inly due to a Danish tax credit
and the recharge to the business segments of certain costs which were
previously reported in Corporate.

48 STRATEGIC REPORT
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL
RESOURCES
We manage our businesses to deliver strong cash flows to fund
investment for profitable growth. Our aim is that, across the business
cycle, “cash in” (including cash from operations and divestments) at
least equals “cash out” (including capital expenditure, interest and
dividends), while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Gearing, calculated as net debt (total debt less cash and cash
equivalents) as a percentage of total capital (net debt plus total equity),
is a key measure of our capital structure. Across the business cycle we
aim to manage gearing within a range of 0-30%. During 2014,
gearing ranged from 11.7% to 16.1% (2013: 9.1% to 16.1%). See
Note 14 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
With respect to the objective of maintaining a strong balance sheet,
our priorities for applying our cash are servicing debt commitments,
paying dividends, investing for organic and inorganic growth, and
returning surplus cash to our shareholders.
OVERVIEW
The most significant factors affecting our operating cash flow are
earnings and movements in working capital, which are mainly
impacted by: realised prices for crude oil and natural gas; production
levels of crude oil and natural gas; and refining and marketing
margins.
Since the contribution of Upstream to earnings is larger than that of
Downstream, changes affecting Upstream – particularly changes in
realised crude oil and natural gas prices and production levels – have
the largest impact on Shell’s operating cash flow. While Upstream
benefits from higher realised crude oil and natural gas prices, the
extent of such benefit (and the extent of an impact from a decline in
these prices) depends on: the extent to which contractual arrangements
are tied to market prices; the dynamics of production-sharing contracts;
the existence of agreements with governments or national oil and gas
companies that have limited sensitivity to crude oil prices; tax impacts;
and the extent to which changes in commodity prices flow through into
operating costs. Changes in benchmark prices of crude oil and natural
gas in any particular period therefore provide only a broad indicator
of changes in Upstream earnings experienced in that period. In the
longer term, replacement of proved oil and gas reserves will affect our
ability to maintain or increase production levels in Upstream, which in
turn will affect our cash flow and earnings.
In Downstream, changes in any one of a range of factors derived from
either within the industry or the broader economic environment can
influence margins. The precise impact of any such changes depends
on how the oil markets respond to them. The market response is
affected by factors such as: whethe r the change affects all crude oil
types or only a specific grade; regional and global crude-oil and
refined-products inventories; and the collective speed of response of
the industry refiners and product marketers in adjusting their operations.
As a result, refinery and marketing margins fluctuate from region to
region and from period to period. Downstream earnings are reported
on a current cost of supplies basis, which excludes the effect of
changes in the oil price on inventory carrying amounts. However, cash
flow from operations is not affected by the reporting basis.
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Net cash from operating activities in 2014 was $45.0 billion, an
increase from $40.4 billion in 2013. There was a cash inflow from
working capital movements of $6.4 billion in 2014, compared with
$2.9 billion in 2013. The decrease in net cash from operating
activities in 2013 compared with 2012 ($46.1 billion) mainly
reflected the reduction in earnings and lower dividends from joint
ventures and associates
Net cash used in investing activities was $19.7 billion in 2014, a
decrease from $40.1 billion in 2013. The decrease was mainly the
result of lower capital expenditure ($8.3 billion) and higher proceeds
from the sale of assets ($8.7 billion). The increase in net cash used in
investing activities in 2013 compared with 2012 ($28.4 billion) was
mainly the result of higher capital expenditure and lower proceeds
f r o mt h es a l eo fa s s e t s .
Net cash used in financing activities in 2014 was $12.8 billion
(2013: $9.0 billion; 2012: $10.6 billion). This included payment of
dividends to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders of $9.4 billion (2013:
$7.2 billion; 2012: $7.4 billio n), repurchases of shares of
$3.3 billion (2013: $5.0 billion; 2012: $1.5 billion) and interest
paid of $1.5 billion (2013: $1.3 billion; 2012: $1.4 billion), partly
offset in 2014 by $1.0 billion received from the Shell Midstream
Partners, L.P. initial public offering and by net debt issued of $0.4
billion (2013: net debt issued of $5.4 billion; 2012: issued debt
offset by debt repaid).
Cash and cash equivalents were $21.6 billion at December 31,
2014 (2013: $9.7 billion; 2012: $18.6 billion).
CASH FLOW INFORMATION [A] $ BILLION
2014 2013 2012
Net cash from operating activities excludingw o r k ing capital movements
Upstream 33.3 28.8 32.9
Downstream 4.5 7.5 8.0
Corporate 0.8 1.2 1.8
Total 38.6 37.5 42.7
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 8.0 0.6 (1.7)
(Increase)/decrease in current receivables (1.6) 5.6 14.1
Decrease in current payables – (3.3) (9.0)
Decrease in working capital 6.4 2.9 3.4
Net cash from operating activities 45.0 40.4 46.1
Net cash used in investing activities (19.7) (40.1) (28.4)
Net cash used inf inancing activities (12.8) (9.0) (10.6)
Currency translation differences relatingt oc a s hand cash equivalents (0.6) (0.2) 0.2
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 11.9 (8.9) 7.3
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginningo f the year 9.7 18.6 11.3
Cash and cash equivalents at the endo f the year 21.6 9.7 18.6
[A] See the “Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows”.

STRATEGIC REPORT 49
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY
Our financial position is strong. In 2014, we generated a return on
average capital employed (ROACE) of 7.1% (see “Return on average
capital employed” in this section) and year-end gearing was 12.2%
(2013: 16.1%). We returned $11.8 b illion to our shareholders
through dividends in 2014. Some of those dividends were paid out as
64.6 million shares issued to shareholders who had elected to receive
new shares instead of cash. To offset the dilution created by the
issuance of those shares, 87.7 million shares were repurchased and
cancelled as part of our share buyback programme. In May 2014, we
announced the cancellation of our Scrip Dividend Programme. As a
result, the second and third quarte r 2014 interim dividends have been,
and the fourth quarter 2014 interim d ividend will be, settled entirely in
cash, rather than offering a share -based alternative. In March 2015,
we announced that the Scrip Dividend Programme is being
reintroduced with effect from the f irst quarter 2015 interim dividend
onwards.
The size and scope of our businesses require a robust financial control
framework and effective management of our various risk exposures.
Financial turbulence in the eurozone and the USA, and other
international events continue to put significant stress on the business
environment in which we operate.
Our treasury and trading operations are highly centralised, and seek to
manage credit exposures associated with our substantial cash, foreign
exchange and commodity positions.
We diversify our cash investments across a range of financial
instruments and counterparties in an effort to avoid concentrating risk in
any one type of investment or country. We carefully monitor our
investments and adjust them in light of new market information.
Exposure to failed financial and trading counterparties was not
material in 2014 (see Note 19 to th e “Consolidated Financial
Statements”).
Total employer contributions to our defined benefit pension plans in
2014 were $1.8 billion (2013: $2.6 billion) and are estimated to be
$2.0 billion in 2015, reflecting curre nt funding levels. See Notes 3
and 17 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
Cash and cash equivalents amounted to $21.6 billion at the end of
2014 (2013: $9.7 billion). Cash and cash equivalents are held in
various currencies but primarily in dollars, euros and sterling. Total
debt increased by $1.0 billion in 2014 to $45.5 billion at
December 31, 2014. The total debt outst anding (excluding leases) at
December 31, 2014, will mature as follows: 18% in 2015; 10% in
2016; 10% in 2017; 15% in 2018; and 47% in 2019 and beyond.
The debt maturing in 2015 is expected to be repaid from a
combination of cash balances and cash generated from operations.
We also maintain a $7.48 billion committed credit facility that was
undrawn as at December 31, 2014. Following a one-year extension
agreed in November 2014, the facil ity currently expires in 2019, but
may in November 2015, by mutual agreement, be extended for one
further year.
We believe our current working capital is sufficient for present
requirements. We satisfy our funding and working capital requirements
from the cash generated by our businesses and through the issuance of
external debt. Our external debt is principally financed from the
international debt capital markets through central debt programmes
consisting of:
/H18546a $10 billion global commercial paper (CP) programme, exempt
from registration under section 3 (a)(3) of the US Securities Act of
1933, with maturities not exceeding 270 days;
/H18546a $10 billion CP programme, exempt from registration under section
4(2) of the US Securities Act of 1933, with maturities not exceeding
397 days;
/H18546$25 billion euro medium-term note (EMTN) programme; and
/H18546an unlimited US universal shelf (US shelf) registration.
All CP, EMTN and US shelf issuance s have been undertaken by Shell
International Finance B.V., the issuance company for Shell, with its
debt being guaranteed by Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Further information is included in Note 14 to the “Consolidated
Financial Statements”.
In 2014, we took advantage of relatively favourable market conditions
in the European market (compared with the US market) and issued
$6.4 billion of bonds under our EMTN programme, partly to pre-
finance bond maturities in 2015. Periodically, for working capital
purposes, we issued commercial p aper (2013: we issued commercial
paper and $7.75 billion of long-term bonds).
Our $7.48 billion committed credit facility and internally available
liquidity provide back-up coverage for commercial paper. Other than
certain borrowings in local subsidiaries, we do not have any other
committed credit facilities. We consider additional facilities to be
neither necessary nor cost-effectiv e for financing purposes, given our
size, credit rating and cash-generative nature.
The maturity profile of our outstanding commercial paper is actively
managed in an effort to ensure that the amount of commercial paper
maturing within 30 days remains consistent with the level of supporting
liquidity.
While our subsidiaries are subject to restrictions, such as foreign
withholding taxes on the transfer of funds in the form of cash dividends,
loans or advances, such restrictions are not expected to have a
material impact on our ability to meet our cash obligations.
The consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges of Shell for each of
five years ended December 31, 2010-2014, is as follows:
RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Ratio of earnings to fixed
charges 14.41 20.11 31.12 35.71 21.75
For the purposes of the table above, earnings consist of pre-tax income
from continuing operations (before adjustment for non-controlling
interest) plus fixed charges (excluding capitalised interest) less
undistributed income of joint ventures and associates. Fixed charges
consist of expensed and capitalised interest (excluding accretion
expense) plus interest within rental expenses (for operating leases).
Refer to “Exhibit 7.1” regarding the calculation of the ratio of earnings
to fixed charges.

50 STRATEGIC REPORT
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
CONTINUED
CAPITALISATION TABLE $ MILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Equity attributable to Royal Dutch Shell
plc shareholders 171,966 180,047
Currentd e b t 7,208 8,344
Non-currentd e b t 38,332 36,218
Total debt [A] 45,540 44,562
Total capitalisation 217,506 224,609
[A] Of total debt, $39.5 billion (2013: $40.0 billion) was unsecured and $6.0 billion (2013:
$4.6 billion) was secured. Further disclosure on debt, including the amount guaranteed by
Royal Dutch Shell plc, is in Note 14 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
DIVIDENDS
Our policy is to grow the US dollar dividend through time in line with
our view of Shell’s underlying earnings and cash flow. When setting
the dividend, the Board of Directors looks at a range of factors,
including the macro environment, the current balance sheet and future
investment plans. We have announced an interim dividend in respect
of the fourth quarter of 2014 of $0.47 per share, a 4.4% increase
compared with the US dollar div idend for the same quarter of 2013.
The Board expects that the first quar ter 2015 interim dividend will be
$0.47 per share, in line with the same quarter of 2014.
NET CAPITAL INVESTMENT
The reduction in net capital investment in 2014 compared with 2013
was driven by higher proceeds from divestments and lower capital
investment. See “Non-GAAP measures reconciliations”.
NET CAPITAL INVESTMENT $ MILLION
2014 2013
Upstream 20,704 39,217
Downstream 3,079 4,885
Corporate 116 201
Total 23,899 44,303
PURCHASES OF SECURITIES
At the 2014 Annual General Meetin g (AGM), shareholders granted
an authority, which will expire at the end of the 2015 AGM, for the
Company to repurchase up to 633 million of its shares. Under this
authority, and a similar authority granted at the 2013 AGM, in 2014
we continued a share buyback programme to offset the dilution
created by the issuance of shares under our Scrip Dividend
Programme. All of the shares purchased under the buyback programme
are cancelled. A resolution wil l be proposed at the 2015 AGM to
renew authority for the Company to purchase its own share capital up
to specified limits for another year. Shares are also purchased by the
employee share ownership trusts and trust-like entities (see the
“Directors’ Report”) to meet delivery commitments under employee
share plans. All share purchases are m ade in open-market transactions.
The table below provides informa tion on purchases of shares in 2014
and up to February 17, 2015, by the issuer and affiliated purchasers.
Purchases in euros and sterling are converted into dollars using the
exchange rate at each transaction date.
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES BY ISSUER AND AFFILIATED PURCHASERS [A]
As h a r e s Bs h a r e s AA D S s
Purchase period
Number
purchased
for employee
share plans
Number
purchased
for cancellation[C]
Weighted
average
price ($)[B]
Number
purchased
for employee
share plans
Number
purchased
for cancellation[C]
Weighted
average
price ($)[B]
Number
purchased
for employee
share plans
Weighted
average
price ($)[B]
2014
January – – – – 10,838,990 37.58 938,671 70.81
February – – – – 14,335,172 38.02 – –
March – – – – 7,254,411 38.97 – –
April – – – – –– ––
May – 3,900,000 39.68 – – – – –
June – 5,566,873 40.35 – – – – –
July – 4,758,786 40.97 – – – – –
August – 5,611,290 40.01 – – – – –
September 300,000 11,000,929 38.80 784, 300 – 39.64 79,073 76.29
October 123,925 21,734,700 35.61 2,058,620 – 31.16 – –
November – – – – –– ––
December 283,600 2,705,000 32.21 149, 740 – 35.18 89,253 68.30
Total 2014 707,525 55,277,578 37.72 2,992,660 32,428,573 37.70 1,106,997 71.00
2015
January – 12,717,512 32.15 – – – 1,133,754 65.00
February – – – – –– ––
Total 2015 [D] – 12,717,512 32.15 – – – 1,133,754 65.00
[A] Excludes shares issued to affiliated purcha sers pursuant to the Scrip Dividend Programme.
[B] Average price paid per share includes stamp duty and brokers’ commission.
[C] Under the share buyback programme.
[D] As at February 17, 2015.

STRATEGIC REPORT 51
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
The table below summarises Shell’s principal contractual obligations at
December 31, 2014, by expected settlement period. The amounts
presented have not been offset by any committed third-party revenue in
relation to these obligations.
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS $ BILLION
Less
than
1y e a r
Between
1a nd3
years
Between
3a nd5
years
5y e a r s
and
later Total
Debt [A] 6.7 7.7 8.7 15.0 38.1
Finance leases [B] 1.1 1.9 1.7 6.3 11.0
Operatingl e a s e s[ C ] 5.7 9.1 6.1 9.9 30.8
Purchase obligations[ D ] 119.5 66.4 46.2 170.0 402.1
Other long-term
contractual liabilities [E] – 0.9 0.4 0.3 1.6
Total 133.0 86.0 63.1 201.5 483.6
[A] Contractual repayments excluding $6.7 bi llion of finance lease obligations. See Note 14
to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
[B] Includes interest. See Note 14 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
[C] See Note 14 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
[D] Includes all significant items, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed,
minimum or any agreement to purchase goods and services that is enforceable, legally binding
and specifies variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the purchase.
[E] Includes all obligations included in “Tr ade and other payables” in “Non-current liabilities”
on the “Consolidated Balance Sheet” that are contractually fixed as to timing and amount. In
addition to these amounts, Shell has certain obli gations that are not contractually fixed as to
timing and amount, including contributions to defined benefit pension plans (see Note 17 to
the “Consolidated Financial Statements”) and obligations associated with decommissioning
and restoration (see Note 18 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”).
The table above excludes interest expense related to debt, which is
estimated to be $1.1 billion payable in less than one year,
$2.0 billion payable between one and three years, $1.5 billion
payable between three and five years, and $7.1 billion payable in
five years and later. For this purpose, we assume that interest rates with
respect to variable interest rate debt remain constant at the rates in
effect at December 31, 2014, and t hat there is no change in the
aggregate principal amount of debt other than repayment at scheduled
maturity as reflected in the table.
GUARANTEES AND OTHER OFF-BALANCE SHEET
ARRANGEMENTS
Guarantees at December 31, 2014, were $3.3 billion (2013:
$3.1 billion). This includes $1. 6 billion (2013: $2.2 billion) of
guarantees of debt of joint ventures and associates, for which the
largest amount outstanding during 2014 was $2.2 billion
(2013: $2.2 billion).
RETURN ON AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED
ROACE measures the efficiency of Shell’s utilisation of the capital that it
employs. In this calculation, ROACE is defined as income for the
period adjusted for after-tax interest expense as a percentage of the
average capital employed for the period. The tax rate used is Shell’s
effective tax rate for the period. Capital employed consists of total
equity, current debt and non-current debt.
C A L C U L A T I O NO FR E T U R NO NA V E R A G E
CAPITAL EMPLOYED $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Income for the period 14,730 16,526 26,960
Interest expense after tax 938 808 938
Incomeb efore interest expense 15,668 17,334 27,898
Capital employed – opening 225,710 213,936 197,141
Capital employed – closing 218,326 225,710 213,936
Capital employed – average 222,018 219,823 205,539
ROACE 7.1% 7.9% 13.6%
In 2014, about 32% of our average capital employed was not
generating any revenue, which reduced our ROACE by approximately
4%. These assets included projects being developed and exploration
acreage.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO THE ROYAL
DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST
The results of operations and financial position of the Royal Dutch Shell
Dividend Access Trust (the Trust) are included in the consolidated results
of operations and financial position of Shell. Certain condensed
financial information in respect of the Trust is given below. See “Royal
Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements” for separate
financial statements for the Trust.
For the years 2014, 2013 and 2012 th e Trust recorded income
before tax of £2,470 million, £2, 361 million and £2,383 million
respectively. In each period this reflected the amount of dividends
received on the dividend access share.
At December 31, 2014, the Trust had t otal equity of £nil (2013: £nil;
2012: £nil), reflecting cas h of £1,497,815 (2013: £1,333,658;
2012: £1,202,271) and unclaimed dividends of £1,497,815
(2013: £1,333,658; 2012: £1,202,271). The Trust only records a
liability for an unclaimed dividend, and a corresponding amount of
cash, to the extent that cheques expire, which is one year after their
issuance, or to the extent that they are returned unpresented.

52 STRATEGIC REPORT
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY
Our success in business depends on our ability to meet a range of
environmental and social challenges. We must show we can operate
safely and manage the effect our activities can have on neighbouring
communities and society as a whole. If we fail to do this, we may incur
liabilities or sanctions, lose business opportunities, harm our reputation
or our licence to operate may be impacted.
The Shell General Business Principles (Principles) include a commitment
to sustainable development that invo lves balancing short- and long-term
interests, and integrating economic, environmental and social aspects
into our business decisions. We have rigorous standards and a firm
governance structure in place to help manage potential impacts. We
also work with communities, business partners, non-governmental
organisations and other bodies to address potential impacts and share
the benefits of our operations and projects.
Data in this section are reported on a 100% basis in respect of
activities where we are the operator. Reporting on this operational
control basis differs from that applie d for financial reporting purposes
in the “Consolidated Financial Statements”. Detailed data and
information on our 2014 environmen tal and social performance will be
published in April 2015 in the She ll Sustainability Report.
SAFETY
Sustaining our licence to operate depends on maintaining the safety
and reliability of our operations. We manage safety risk across our
businesses through controls and compliance systems combined with a
safety-focused culture. Our global standards and operating procedures
define the controls and physical barriers we require to prevent
incidents. For example, our offshore wells are designed with at least
two independent barriers to mitigate the risk of an uncontrolled release
of hydrocarbons. We regularly inspect, test and maintain these barriers
to ensure they meet our standards. We also routinely prepare and
practise our emergency response to potential incidents such as an oil
spill or a fire. This involves working closely with local agencies to
jointly test our plans and procedures. The tests continually improve our
readiness to respond. If an incident does occur, we have procedures
in place to reduce the impact on people and the environment.
We continue to strengthen the safety culture among our employees and
contractors. We expect everyone wo rking for us to intervene and stop
work that may appear to be unsafe. In addition to our ongoing safety
awareness programmes, we hold an annual global safety day to give
workers time to reflect on how to prevent incidents. We expect
everyone working for us to comply with our 12 mandatory Life-Saving
Rules. If employees break these rules, they face disciplinary action up
to and including termination of employment. If contractors break the
L i f e - S a v i n gR u l e s ,t h e yc a nb er e m o v e df r o mt h ew o r k s i t e .
While we continually work to minimise the likelihood of incidents,
some do occur, for example, there was an explosion at our Moerdijk
chemical site in the Netherlands in 2014. We investigate all incidents
to understand the underlying causes and translate these into
improvements in standards or ways of working that can be applied
broadly across similar facilities in Shell.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Growth in energy demand means that all sources of energy will be
needed over the longer term. With hydrocarbons forecast to provide
the bulk of the energy needed over coming decades, policymakers are
focusing on regulations that balance energy demand with
environmental concerns. The management of emissions of carbon
dioxide (CO
2) will become increasingly important as concerns over
climate change lead to tighter environmental regulation.
We already assess potential costs associated with CO 2 emissions when
evaluating projects. However, in future, governments may increasingly
i m p o s eap r i c eo nC O
2 emissions that relevant companies will have to
incorporate in their investment plans and governments may also require
companies to apply technical measures to reduce their CO
2 emissions.
This could result in higher energy, product and project costs. Currently
enacted, proposed and future legisla tion is also expected to increase the
cost of doing business. Furthermore, in our own operations, we are
working to understand the potential physical impact of climate change in
the future on our facilities and new projects.
As energy demand increases and easily accessible oil and gas
resources decline, we are developing resources that require more
energy and require advanced technology to produce. As our
production becomes more energy intensive, we expect there will be an
associated increase in the direct CO
2 emissions from the Upstream
facilities we operate.
We are seeking cost-effective ways to manage CO 2 emissions and
see potential business opportunities in developing such solutions. Our
main contributions to reducing CO
2 emissions are in four areas:
supplying more natural gas; supplying more biofuels; progressing
carbon capture and storage (CCS) technologies; and implementing
energy efficiency measures in our operations. To support this, we
continue to advocate the introduction of effective carbon pricing.
According to the International E nergy Agency (IEA), almost 40% of
global primary energy is currently used to generate electricity. For
many countries, using more gas in power generation instead of coal
can make the largest contribution, at the lowest cost, to meeting their
CO
2 emission reduction objectives. We expect that, in combination
with renewables and use of CCS, natural gas will be essential for
significantly lower CO
2 emissions beyond 2020. With Shell’s leading
position in liquified natural gas (LNG) and new technologies for
recovering gas from tight rock formations, we can supply natural gas to
replace coal in power generation.
We believe that low-carbon biofuels are one of the most viable ways
to reduce CO
2 from transport fuels in the coming years. Our Raízen
joint venture in Brazil produces low-carbon biofuel from sugar cane.
We are also investing in research to help develop and commercialise
advanced biofuels.
The IEA has stated that CCS could contribute around 15% of the CO
2
mitigation effort required by 2050. To advance CCS technologies, Shell
is involved in CCS projects including the Quest project in Canada, the
Mongstad test centre in Norway and the Gorgon CO
2 injection project
in Australia. In 2012, we submitted a proposal for a project in
Peterhead, in the UK, to store CO
2 in a depleted gas reservoir in the
North Sea. In 2014, Shell signed an agreement with the UK government
to progress detailed design of the Peterhead CCS project. It could
potentially capture and store around 10 million tonnes of CO
2 over 10
years from a gas-fired power station. These projects are part of an
important demonstration phase for CCS, during which government
support is essential. Initiatives such as the European Union’s acceptance
of CCS as an offsetting activity under the Clean Development
Mechanism are a positive step in progressing such technologies.
We continue to work on improving energy efficiency at our oil and gas
production projects, oil refineries and chemical plants. Measures
include our CO
2 and energy management programme that focuses on
the efficient operation of existing equipment by using monitoring
systems which give us instant information that we can use to make
energy-saving changes.
In addition, we work to help our customers conserve energy and
reduce their CO
2 emissions, including through the development and
sale of advanced fuels and lubricants.

STRATEGIC REPORT 53
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY
Our direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions increased from 73 million
tonnes of CO 2 equivalent in 2013 to 76 million in 2014. The increase
in flaring, or burning off, of gas in our Upstream business was the main
contributor to this increase. The majority of this flaring takes place at
facilities where there is no infrastructure to capture the gas produced
with oil, known as associated gas. Gas flaring from these operations
may rise further in coming years if oil production increases.
Most of the increase in flaring in 2014 relates to Majnoon in Iraq in
line with increased oil production. Majnoon represented around 35%
of our flaring in 2014. We have agr eed two projects to capture most
of the associated gas from future production. The first project is
scheduled to be completed in 2015. We expect lower flaring levels
starting in 2016 when gas gatheri ng equipment is operational.
In parallel, our involvement in Basrah Gas Company (BGC), a joint
venture between Shell, South Gas Company and Mitsubishi
Corporation in the south of Iraq, continues to reduce flaring in the
country. It is the largest gas project in Iraq’s history and the world’s
largest flaring reduction project. BGC captures associated gas that
would otherwise be flared from three non-operated oil fields in southern
Iraq (Rumaila, West Qurna 1 and Zubair) for use in the domestic
market.
Around 30% of our flaring takes place in Nigeria, where a
challenging operating environment and shortfalls in funding from the
government-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Company – which
has the majority interest in a joint arrangement operated by Shell
Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Ltd (SPDC) – has slowed
progress on projects that are expected to gather additional associated
gas currently flared.
Greenhouse gas emissions data are provided below in accordance
with UK regulations introduced in 2013. Greenhouse gas emissions
comprise carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons,
perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride. The data are calculated
u s i n gl o c a l l yr e g u l a t e dm e t h o d sw h e r et h e ye x i s t .W h e r et h e r ei sn o
locally regulated method, the data are calculated using the 2009 API
Compendium which is the recognised industry standard under the
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. There
are inherent limitations to the accuracy of such data. Oil and gas
industry guidelines (IPIECA/API/OGP) indicate that a number of
sources of uncertainty can contribute to the overall uncertainty of a
corporate emissions’ inventory.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
2014 2013
Emissions( million tonnes of CO2 equivalent)
Direct [A] 76 73
Energy indirect [B] 10 10
Intensity ratios (tonne/tonne)
All facilities [C] 0.23 0.22
Downstream refineries [D] 0.29 0.30
Upstreamf acilities [E] 0.14 0.12
[A] Emissions from the combustion of fuel and the operation of facilities.
[B] Emissions from the purchase of electric ity, heat, steam and cooling for our own use.
[C] In tonnes of total direct and energy indirect emissions per tonne of crude oil and feedstocks
processed and petrochemicals produced in D ownstream manufacturing, and oil and gas
produced and gas processed by gas-to-liquid fa cilities in Upstream. The regulations require the
reporting of a ratio which expresses the annual em issions in relation to a quantifiable factor
associated with our activities. However, oil and gas industry guidelines (IPIECA/API/OGP)
state that only presenting normalised environ mental performance data separately for different
business activities would generally provide mean ingful information. As a result, we are also
reporting the most appropriate ratio for our Downstream and Upstream businesses.
[D] In tonnes of direct and energy indirect emissions per tonne of crude oil and feedstocks
processed. The ratio includes chemical plants where they are integrated with refineries.
[E] In tonnes of direct and energy indirect em issions per tonne of oil and gas produced. The
ratio excludes gas-to-liquids facilities.
SPILLS
Large spills of crude oil, oil products and chemicals associated with
our operations can result in major clean-up costs as well as fines and
other damages. They can also affect our licence to operate and harm
our reputation. We have clear requirements and procedures designed
to prevent spills, and our asset integrity programmes include the
design, maintenance and operation of spill containment facilities.
Shell business units are responsible for organising and executing oil spill
responses in line with Shell guidelines as well as with relevant legal and
regulatory requirements. All our offshore installations have plans in place
to respond to a spill. These plans detail response strategies and
techniques, available equipment, and trained personnel and contracts.
We are able to call upon significant resources such as containment
booms, collection vessels and aircraft. We are also able to draw upon
the contracted services of oil spill response organisations, if required.
We conduct regular exercises that seek to ensure these plans remain
effective. We have further developed our capability to respond to spills
to water, and maintain a Global Response Support Network to support
worldwide response capability. This is also supported by our global Oil
Spill Excellence Center, which tests local capability, and maintains
Shell’s capability globally to respond to a significant incident.
Shell is a founding member of the Marine Well Containment Company,
a non-profit industry consortium providing a well-containment response
system for the Gulf of Mexico. In addition, Shell was a founding member
o ft h eS u b s e aW e l lR e s p o n s eP r o j e c t ,a ni n d u s t r yc o o p e r a t i v ee f f o r tt o
enhance global well-containment capabilities. The additional
well-containment capability developed by this project is now managed
by an industry consortium via Oil Spill Response Limited.
Shell also maintains site-specific emergency response plans in the event
of an onshore spill. Like the offshore response plans, these are
designed to meet Shell guidelines as well as relevant legal and
regulatory requirements. They also provide for the initial assessment of
incidents and the mobilisation of resources needed to manage them.
In 2014, the number of operational spills of more than 100 kilograms
decreased to 153 from 174 in 2013. At the end of February 2015,
there were three spills under investigation in Nigeria that may result in
adjustments.
Although most oil spills in Nigeria result from sabotage and theft of
crude oil, there are instances where spills occur in our operations due
to operational failures, accidents or corrosion. SPDC responds to all oil
spills, regardless of the cause, originating in the area immediately
surrounding its pipelines and other facilities. It has been working to
reduce operational spills that are under its control. It maintains a public
website to track the response, investigation and clean-up of every spill
from its facilities due to operational failure, sabotage or theft.
In January 2015, SPDC announced a £55 million settlement
agreement with the Bodo community in respect of two operational
spills in 2008. The settlement provi des for an individual payment to
each claimant who accepts the agreement in compensation for losses
arising from the spills, up to £35 million in total. The remaining
£20 million payment will be made for the benefit of the Bodo
community generally. In 2009, clean-up work took place, but we were
prevented from accessing some of the spill sites by the community, and
this area has subsequently seen additional spills as a result of oil theft
and sabotage. Divisions within the community and the litigation
process itself created further regrettable delays to the clean-up process.
With the support of the former Dutch Ambassador to Nigeria and the
involvement of the National Coalition on Gas Flaring and Oil Spills in
the Niger Delta (a federation of 25 Niger Delta environmental non-
governmental organisations), the community agreed to separate out the
clean-up activity from the litigation. Despite some further delays caused

54 STRATEGIC REPORT
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY
CONTINUED
by intra-community divisions, we are pleased that a clean-up plan
supported by the community is in place.
HYDRAULIC FRACTURING
Over the last decade, we have expanded our onshore oil and gas
portfolio using advances in technology to access previously uneconomic
tight-oil and gas resources, including those locked in shale formations.
One of the key technologies applied in tight-oil and tight-gas fields is
known as hydraulic fracturing, a technique that has been used since
the 1950s. It involves pumping a mix ture of water, sand and chemical
additives at high pressure into a rock formation, creating tiny fissures
through which oil and gas can flow. To protect and isolate potable
groundwater from hydraulic-fracturing fluids in the wellbore, we line all
our wells with steel casing and cement.
All of our wells are expected to have two or more subsurface barriers
to protect groundwater. We monitor a wellbore’s integrity before,
during and after hydraulic fracturing. When we acquire assets, we
evaluate the assets’ wells for conformity with our safety and operating
principles, and put in place a plan with a timeline for rectifying any
inconsistencies as far as reasonably practical.
We recycle or reuse as much water as we believe is reasonably
practical. We store, treat or dispose of water in accordance with
regulatory requirements and Shell standards.
To the extent allowed by our suppliers, Shell supports full disclosure of
the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing fluids for Shell-operated wells.
Material Safety Data Sheet information is available on site where wells
are being hydraulically fractured. Shell supports regulation to require
suppliers to release such informatio n. The chemicals used in hydraulic
fracturing will vary from well to well and from contractor to contractor,
but some can be toxic. For that reason, we have stringent procedures for
handling hydraulic-fracturing chemicals in accordance with the design
and assurance processes described above. The formations into which
these additives may be injected are typically more than a thousand
metres below freshwater aquifers. Our procedures require that potable
groundwater must be isolated from well completion and production
activities. Moreover, we only use air, water or a water-based liquid
while drilling through the potable groundwater aquifer to a depth below
the aquifer. The casing and cement are then put in place before drilling
is resumed and hydraulic fracturing is initiated.
There have been reports linking hydraulic fracturing to earth tremors.
Most seismic events occur naturally due to motion along faults under
stress in the earth’s crust. Some areas are more seismically active than
others. Shell analyses publicly available seismic, geologic and
geophysical data to determine historical seismicity in areas where we
plan to operate, and if seismic activity beyond historic levels is
detected, we will investigate and review our operations.
Some jurisdictions are considering more stringent permitting, well-
construction and other regulations relating to fracturing, as well as
local bans and other land use restrictions. Such regulations could
subject our operations to delays, increased costs or prohibitions. We
have adopted a set of operating principles for all of our onshore tight-
oil and gas operations. Our current standards meet or exceed the
existing regulatory requirements of the jurisdictions where we operate.
OIL SANDS
We are developing mineable oil sands resources in Alberta, Canada.
We use an aqueous extraction method (i.e. warm water) to extract
bitumen, which is a heavy oil. Tailings are the residual by-products that
remain after the bitumen is separated from the mined oil sands ore. They
are composed of some residual bitumen, water, sand, silt, clay particles
and naturally occurring trace heavy metals. Tailings are stored in an
above-ground tailings’ facilities until the mined-out pit area can be
backfilled with tailings materials and fluids. This in-pit backfilling process
begins approximately eight to10 years after mining has started. This time
allows for mining to progress enough to allow for containment to be built
after the area is mined, and for tailings material to be placed as mining
continues to advance. Tailings contain naturally occurring chemicals that
are toxic. We monitor tailings continuously, assess their potential
environmental impact, and take measures to protect wildlife and to
mitigate the potential for contamination of surface water and
groundwater.
In addition, tailings facilities serve an important purpose in the operation,
as they allow water to be recycled, reducing the amount of water
required from the river. Over 75% of the water used in our oil sands
mining operations is recycled from the tailings’ facilities at our mines.
The tailings management areas at the Athabasca Oil Sands Project’s
Muskeg River and Jackpine mines cover an area of 37 square
kilometres. The increase in area from 24 square kilometres in 2014
aligns with the development plans for both project sites. Of the
37 square kilometres, six square kilometres are part of the in-pit
backfilling process and two square kilometres have been allocated to
processing or drying of fluid tailings as part of our atmospheric fines
drying process. We estimate that the tailings’ footprint will start to
decrease between 2020 to 2025 as the ext ernal tailings facilities start
to be reclaimed and tailings materials are deposited in pit as part of
the in-pit backfilling process.
Alberta regulations require that the land which is disturbed must be
reclaimed – for example, through revegetation or reforestation – to a
capability equivalent to that which existed prior to development. Dried
tailings can be blended and treated to produce material suitable for
use in land reclamation. We continue to experience challenges with
tailings that have a high percentage of fine particles and liquid
content. We are working with the Alberta Government and the Alberta
Energy Regulator to ensure that we are in compliance with all oil sands
regulatory requirements, including those regarding tailings.
In late 2010, we found water at the bottom of a section of a pit at the
Muskeg River Mine. The water was confirmed to be saline and to
originate from a deep aquifer below the mine pit. Upon discovery,
containment was built to ensure the water remained in the containment
area. There has been no inflow from or outflow to the aquifer since
January 2012 and the water is contained in the pit where it is
continuously monitored and poses minimal risk to the environment or
mine production processes. To enable use of the area where the inflow
o c c u r r e d ,p l a n st om a n a g et h es a l i n ew a t e ra r ei nd e v e l o p m e n t ,
including transferring this water to holding ponds where it would be
stored and actively monitored while permanent solutions are being
considered and is out of the way of the active mining/tailings
backfilling area.

STRATEGIC REPORT 55
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY
EXPLORATION IN ALASKA
We hold more than 410 federal leases for exploration in the Beaufort
a n dC h u k c h is e a si nA l a s k a .W ep r e v i o u s l yo p e r a t e df o ra l m o s t
50 years in Alaska, including in both these seas, until 1998. We are
familiar with these shallow waters and the hydrocarbon reservoirs
beneath them, which are of relatively low pressure.
In 2014, the US Coast Guard publish ed its investigation on the 2012
grounding of the Kulluk mobile offshore drilling unit (MODU), which
took place around 1,900 kilometres from the drilling site. The vessel
was successfully recovered and ultimately recycled. There were no
significant injuries or environmental damage associated with the
grounding. Identified issues have been addressed. Enhancements to
the programme based on lessons learned from 2012 operations
include:
/H18546The Kulluk has been replaced by the Transocean Polar Pioneer,
which is a harsh weather semi-submersible drilling unit.
/H18546Modifications and subsequent sea trials have been conducted on the
Aiviq (towing vessel).
/H18546Additional ships have been contracted to provide increased backup
in operational support.
/H18546An additional helicopter will be contracted to support aviation
activities and provide further backup for air operations.
/H18546Global guidelines for wet towing of MODUs have been developed.
They include processes and procedures for towing MODUs including
in harsh weather environments. Shell has shared these guidelines with
the US Coast Guard towing task force referenced in the report.
We have strengthened our contractor management and Arctic
organisation and, together with the contractors, improved our planning
and processes.
To prepare for drilling off the coast of Alaska, we have developed a
well intervention and oil spill response capability that includes capping
and oil spill response vessels. The Arctic Containment System has been
modified since 2012 and is expected to be available for the 2015
drilling season. Improvements have also been made to emergency
response assets and additional equipment has been purchased to
enhance response capabilities based on the lessons learned during the
2012 season. Maintenance and inven tory of critical spare parts for the
oil spill response equipment have been enhanced by utilising a
dedicated maintenance and storage facility in Anchorage. We have a
range of equipment and vessels ne cessary to respond to a spill 24
hours a day in case a spill happens during our exploration season in
Alaska in 2015.
WATER
Fresh water availability and water management are increasingly
important strategic business issues for Shell and the energy industry in
general, bringing both challenges and opportunities. Global demand
for fresh water is growing while access to fresh water is becoming
more constrained in some parts of the world.
Shell’s water use may expand in the future with the further development
of shale oil and gas, oil sands and our biofuel business. A combination
of increasing demand for water resources, growing stakeholder
expectations and concerns, and water-related legislation may drive
actions that affect our ability to secure access to fresh water and to
discharge water from our operations. Although the availability of fresh
water is a global issue, water constraints are mainly local, requiring local
solutions. In areas of water scarcity, we develop water management
action plans and design our operations to minimise their water use.
For example, at Groundbirch, a tight-gas asset in Canada, we are
recycling approximately 75% of the water produced. We also jointly
commissioned a recycling water treatment plant with the Canadian
City of Dawson Creek. The plant treats sewage wastewater for use by
Shell and the community.
At our oil sands operations in Canada, we use far less than our water
allocation from the Athabasca River and we seek to minimise the
amount withdrawn during the winter months when the flow rate is low.
We also reduce the amount of fresh water needed in operations by
recycling water from the tailings ponds. About 75% of the water we
use is recycled and we are investigating new ways to further reduce
fresh water intake.
Water is needed to produce ethanol and our biofuel joint venture
Raízen has been introducing a system that recycles 90% of the water
used in the industrial process.
Our Pearl GTL plant in Qatar does not take fresh water from its arid
surroundings. The water produced in the GTL manufacturing process is
recycled in the operation, fulfilling all the water needs of the plant.
BIOFUELS
The international market for biofuels is growing, driven largely by the
introduction of new energy policies in Europe and the USA that call for
more renewable, lower-carbon fuels for transport. Shell predicts that
biofuels will increase from 3% of the global transport fuel mix today to
around 10% by 2050. According to the IEA, sustainable biofuels are
expected to play an increasingly important role in helping to meet our
customers’ fuel needs and reduce CO
2 emissions.
From cultivation to use, some biofuels emit significantly less CO 2
compared with conventional gasoline. But this depends on several
factors, such as how the raw materials are produced. Other challenges
include concerns over land competing with food crops, labour rights,
and the water used in the production process.
In 2014, we used around 9 billion litr es of biofuel in our gasoline and
diesel blends worldwide, which makes us one of the world’s largest
biofuel suppliers. We include our own long-established sustainability
clauses in our supply contracts and, where possible, we source
biofuels that have been certified against internationally recognised
sustainability standards. These clauses are designed to prevent the
sourcing of biofuels from suppliers that may not abide by human rights
guidelines, or that may have cleared land rich in biodiversity.
We are also developing our own capabilities to produce sustainable
biofuel components. The Raízen joint venture produces approximately
2 billion litres annually of ethanol from sugar cane in Brazil – the most
sustainable and cost competitive of today’s biofuels. This ethanol can
reduce CO
2 emissions by around 70% comp ared with gasoline, from
cultivation of the sugar cane to using the ethanol as fuel.
The joint-venture agreement includes developing joint sustainability
principles, standards and operating procedures that also apply to third-
party suppliers. We also continue to work with industry, governments
and voluntary organisations towards the development of global
sustainability standards for biofuels.
We continue to invest in developing more advanced biofuels for the
future. For example, in 2014 Raízen completed the construction of a
commercial-scale pilot plant to produce second-generation bioethanol.
This cellulosic ethanol will be generated from sugar cane by-product
and therefore will have less impact on food and feed prices.
Government support will be required to accelerate the speed of
advanced biofuels development.

56 STRATEGIC REPORT
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY
CONTINUED
ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS
We are subject to a variety of environmental laws, regulations and
reporting requirements in the countries where we operate. Infringing
any of these laws, regulations and requirements could result in
significant costs, including clean-up costs, fines, sanctions and third-
party claims, as well as harm our ability to do business and our
reputation.
Our ongoing operating expenses include the costs of avoiding
unauthorised discharges into the air and water, and the safe disposal
and handling of waste.
We place a premium on developing effective technologies that are
also safe for the environment. However, when operating at the
forefront of technology, there is always the possibility that a new
technology brings with it environmental impacts that have not been
assessed, foreseen or determined to be harmful, when originally
implemented. While we believe we take all reasonable precautions to
limit these risks, we are subject to additional remedial environmental
and litigation costs as a result of our operations’ unknown and
unforeseen impacts on the environment. Although these costs have so
far not been material to Shell, no assurance can be made that this will
always be the case.
In this regard, as oil and gas fields mature, it is possible in certain
circumstances for seismic activity to increase based on the unique
geology of individual fields. For example, after more than 60 years of
developing the Groningen gas field in the Netherlands, seismic activity
has increased leading to measurable earth tremors. Our Dutch joint
venture Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (NAM) has followed
the production plan approved in 2014 by the Minister of Economic
Affairs of the Netherlands. It is working with the government to identify
effective responses and will follow any future requirements.
NEIGHBOURING COMMUNITIES AND HUMAN RIGHTS
Earning the trust of local communities is essential to the success of our
projects and operations. We have global requirements for social
performance – how we perform in our relationship with communities.
The requirements set clear rules and expectations for how we engage
with and respect communities that may be impacted by our operations.
Shell-operated major projects and facilities are required to have a
social performance plan and an effective community feedback
mechanism. This helps the business to understand the social context in
which we plan to operate, identifies potential negative effects on the
community and manages impacts. In addition, we have specific
requirements intended to minimise our impact on indigenous peoples’
traditional lifestyles and on handling involuntary resettlement.
Shell has long been involved with developments in business and
human rights in line with the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights. Our Principles and Code of Conduct
require our employees and contractors to respect the human rights of
fellow workers and communities where we operate.
We have specific policies in place in areas across Shell’s activities
where respect for human rights is particularly important to the way we
operate, such as communities, labour, procurement and security. We
also work with other companies and non-governmental organisations to
improve the way we apply these principles. Our approach to human
rights helps us operate in a responsible way, delivering projects
without delays and minimising the social impacts of our operations. It
also enables us to better share the benefits of our activities, such as
creating new jobs and contracts that help develop local economies.
OUR PEOPLE
Our people are central to our aim of being the world’s most
competitive and innovative energy company. We recruit, train and
recompense according to a people strategy based on three priorities:
resourcing and developing talent now and in the future; strengthening
leadership and professionalism; and enhancing individual and
organisational performance.
EMPLOYEE OVERVIEW
In 2014, Shell employed an average of 94,000 people in more than
70 countries. We continued to recruit externally to execute our strategy
and growth plans for the future, hiring about 1,200 graduates and
2,000 experienced professionals. The majority of each came from
technical disciplines. More than 30% of our graduate recruits came
from universities outside Europe and the Americas in response to
increasing demand for skilled people in other regions.
The table below shows our average employee numbers by
geographical area. The increase in 2014 compared with 2013
reflects our continuing growth strategy in Asia and the Americas.
EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA
(AVERAGE NUMBERS) THOUSAND
2014 2013 2012
Europe 25 25 24
Asia 28 27 25
Oceania 233
Africa 333
North America 32 31 29
South America 433
Total 94 92 87
EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION AND INVOLVEMENT
We strive to maintain a constructive working environment with
employees and, where appropriate, employee representative bodies.
However, collective bargaining negotiations can result in disputes,
strikes or work stoppages, such as the United Steelworkers union strike
initiated on February 1, 2015 , at the Deer Park refinery and
l a b o r a t o r yi nT e x a s ,U S A .W h i l et a l k sa r eo n g o i n g ,w el o o kf o r w a r d
to reaching a mutually acceptable settlement.
Two-way dialogue between management and staff is embedded in our
work practices. On a quarterly basis, management briefs employees
on Shell’s operational and financial r esults through various channels,
including team meetings, face-to-face gatherings, a personal email
from the Chief Executive Officer, webcasts and online publications.
The Shell People Survey is one of the principal tools used to measure
employee engagement: the degree of affiliation and commitment to
Shell. It provides insights into employees’ views and has had a
consistently high response rate . The average employee engagement
score in 2014 was 80% favourable, as it was in 2013.
We promote safe reporting of views about our processes and
practices. In addition to local channels, our global telephone helpline
and website enable employees to report potential breaches of the
Shell General Business Principles and Code of Conduct, confidentially
and anonymously, in a choice of several languages.

STRATEGIC REPORT 57
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 OUR PEOPLE
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
We have a culture that embraces diversity and fosters inclusion. By
embedding these principles in our operations, we have a better
understanding of the needs of our varied customers, partners and
stakeholders throughout the world and can benefit from a wider talent
pool. We provide equal opportunity in recruitment, career
development, promotion, training and rewards for all employees,
including those with disabilities. Where possible, we make reasonable
adjustments in job design and provide appropriate training for
employees who have become disabled.
We actively monitor representation of women and local nationals in
senior leadership positions, and have talent-development processes to
support us in delivering more diverse representation.
At the end of 2014, the proportion of women in senior leadership
positions was 18.1% compar ed with 17.2% in 2013. Senior
leadership positions is a Shell meas ure based on senior salary group
levels and is distinct from the term “senior manager” in the statutory
disclosures set out below.
GENDER DIVERSITY DATA
(AT DECEMBER 31, 2014) NUMBER
Men Women
Directors of the Company 9 75% 3 25%
Senior managers [A] 829 79% 217 21%
Employees (thousands) 66 71% 28 29%
[A] Senior manager is defined in section 414C(9) of the Companies Act 2006 and
accordingly the number disclosed comprises the Executive Committee members who were not
Directors of the Company as well as other directors of Shell subsidiaries.
With effect from 2014, we revised our local nationals representation
metric to ensure it adequately takes account of the senior local
nationals working overseas. In 20 selected key business countries, we
began measuring local national coverage, which is defined as the
number of senior local nationals (b oth those working in the respective
country and those expatriated) as a percentage of the number of senior
leadership positions in their base country.
LOCAL NATIONAL COVERAGE
(AT DECEMBER 31, 2014)
Number of selected countries
2014 2013
Greater than 80% 12 12
Less than 80% 88
Total 20 20
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS
Shell has a number of share plans designed to align employees’
interests with Shell’s performance through share ownership. For
information on the share-based compensation plans for Executive
Directors, see the “Directors’ Remuneration Report”.
Performance Share Pla n andL ong-term Incentive Pla n
Conditional awards of the Company’s shares are made under the
terms of the Performance Share Plan (PSP) to some 17,000 employees
each year. From 2015, senior execu tives will receive conditional
awards of the Company’s shares under the terms of the Long-term
Incentive Plan (LTIP) rather than under the terms of the PSP. The extent to
which the awards vest under both plans is determined over a
three-year performance period but the performance conditions
applicable to each plan are different. Under the PSP, half of the award
is linked to the key performance indicators described in “Performance
Indicators”, averaged over the period. The other half of the award is
linked to a comparative performance condition which involves a
comparison with four of our main competitors over the period, based
on four relative performance measures. Under the LTIP, the award is
solely linked to the comparative performance condition described
above. Under both plans, all shares that vest are increased by an
amount equal to the notional dividends accrued on those shares during
the period from the award date to the vesting date. In certain
circumstances awards may be adjusted before delivery or reclaimed
after delivery. None of the awards results in beneficial ownership until
the shares vest. See Note 21 to the “Consolidated Financial
Statements”.
Restricted Share Pla n
Under the Restricted Share Plan, awards are made on a highly
selective basis to senior staff. Shares are awarded subject to a three-
year retention period. All shares that vest are increased by an amount
equal to the notional dividends accrued on those shares during the
period from the award date to the vesting date. In certain
circumstances awards may be adjusted before delivery or reclaimed
after delivery.
Global E mployee Share Purchase Pla n
Eligible employees in participating countries may participate in the
Global Employee Share Purchase Plan. This plan enables them to
make contributions from net pay towards the purchase of the
Company’s shares at a 15% discount to the market price, either at the
start or at the end of an annual cycle, whichever date offers the lower
market price.
UK Sharesave Sche me
Eligible employees of participating companies in the UK may
participate in the UK Sharesave Scheme. Options are granted over the
Company’s shares at market value on the invitation date. These options
are normally exercisable after completion of a three-year or five-year
contractual savings period.
UK Shell All E mployee Share Ow nership Pla n
Eligible employees of participating companies in the UK may
participate in the Shell All Employee Share Ownership Plan, under
which monthly contributions from gross pay are made towards the
purchase of the Company’s shares.
S t r a t e g i cR e p o r ts i g n e do nb e h a l fo ft h eB o a r d
/s/ Michiel Brandjes
Michiel Brandjes
Company Secretary
March 11, 2015

58 GOVERNANCE
THE BOARD OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
GOVERNANCE
THE BOARD OF ROYAL DUTCH
SHELL PLC
JORMA OLLILA
Chairman
Born August 15, 1950. A Finnish natio nal, appointed Chairman of the
Company with effect from June 2006.
From 1999 to 2006, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Nokia, and continued as Chairma n until 2012. He was President and
Chief Executive Officer of Nokia from 1992 to 1999 and President of
Nokia Mobile Phones from 1990 to 1992, after serving as Senior
Vice President, Finance from 1986. He joined Nokia in 1985 as Vice
President of International Operations after starting his career at
Citibank in London and Helsinki.
He is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Outokumpu Oyj, a
Non-executive Director of Tetra Laval Group and an Advisory Partner
of Perella Weinberg Partners.
Chairman of the Nomination and Succession Committee
HANS WIJERS
Deputy Chair man andS enior Independent Director
Born January 11, 1951. A Dutch natio nal, appointed a Non-executive
Director of the Company with effect from January 2009.
He was Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of
Management of Akzo Nobel N .V. from 2003 to 2012, having
become a Board member in 2002. From 1999 to 2002, he was a
Senior Partner at The Boston Consulting Group. He was Dutch Minister
for Economic Affairs from 1994 to 1998, and was previously
Managing Partner of The Boston Consulting Group. He obtained a
PhD in economics from Erasmus University Rotterdam while teaching
there.
He is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of AFC Ajax N.V. and the
Supervisory Board of Heineken N.V., a member of the Supervisory
Board of HAL Holding N.V., a Non-executive Director of
GlaxoSmithKline plc and a trustee of various charities.
Member of the Nomination and Succession Committee
BEN VAN BEURDEN
Chief Executive O fficer
Born April 23, 1958. A Dutch nationa l, appointed Chief Executive
Officer with effect from January 1, 2014.
He was Downstream Director from January to September 2013.
Previously he was Executive Vice President Chemicals from December
2006, when he served on the boards of a number of leading industry
associations, including the International Council of Chemicals
Associations and the European Chemical Industry Council. Prior to this,
he held a number of operational and commercial roles in both
Upstream and Downstream, including Vice President Manufacturing
Excellence. He joined Shell in 1983, after graduating with a Master’s
Degree in Chemical Engineering from Delft University of Technology,
the Netherlands.
SIMON HENRY
Chief Financial O fficer
Born July 13, 1961. A British nationa l, appointed Chief Financial
Officer of the Company w ith effect from May 2009.
He was Chief Financial Officer for Exploration & Production from
2004 to 2009, and was Head of Group Investor Relations from 2001
to 2004. Prior to these roles, he held various finance posts including
Finance Manager of Marketing in Egypt, Controller for the Upstream
business in Egypt, Oil Products Finance Adviser for Asia-Pacific,
Finance Director for the Mekong Cluster, and General Manager
Finance for the South East Asian Retail business. He joined Shell in
1982 as an engineer at the Stanlow refinery in the UK and in 1989
qualified as a member of the Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants.
He was appointed a Non-executive Director of Lloyds Banking Group
plc with effect from June 2014.
GUY ELLIOTT
Non-executive Director
Born December 26, 1955. A British national, appointed a
Non-executive Director of the Company with effect from September
2010.
He was Chief Financial Officer of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited
from 2002 to April 2013, and remained Senior Executive Director of
these companies until the end of 2013. Prior to joining the Rio Tinto
Group, he worked in investment banking and gained an MBA at
INSEAD. From 2007 to 2010, he was a Non-executive Director of
Cadbury plc, serving as Chairma n of its Audit Committee from 2008
to 2009 and as Senior Independent Director from 2008 to 2010.
He is a member of the UK Takeover Panel, which he joined in 2012,
and was appointed Chairman of t he Code Committee of the Panel
with effect from February 2014. He was appointed a Non-executive
Director of SABMiller plc in July 2013 and later that year was
appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and Member of the Nomination
and Succession Committee

GOVERNANCE 59
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 THE BOARD OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC
EULEEN GOH
Non-executive Director
Born April 20, 1955. A Singapo rean national, appointed a
Non-executive Director of the Company with effect from September 1,
2014.
She is a chartered accountant and also has professional qualifications
in banking and taxation. She held various senior management
positions with Standard Chartered Bank and was Chief Executive
Officer of Standard Chartered Bank, Singapore from 2001 until
2006.
She has also held non-executive appointments on various boards
including Aviva plc, MediaCorp Pte Limited, Singapore Airlines
Limited, Singapore Exchange Limited, Standard Chartered Bank
Malaysia Berhad and Standard Chartered Bank Thai pcl. She was
previously Chairman of International Enterprise Singapore and the
Accounting Standards Council, Singapore.
She is a Non-executive Director of CapitaLand Limited, DBS Bank
Limited, DBS Group Holdings Limited and SATS Limited, and a Trustee
of the Singapore Institute of International Affairs Endowment Fund. She
is also Non-executive Chairman of the Singapore International
Foundation and a Non-executive Director of Singapore Health Services
Pte Limited, both not-for-profit organisations.
Member of the Audit Committee
CHARLES O. HOLLIDAY
Non-executive Director
Born March 9, 1948. A US national, appointed a Non-executive
Director of the Company with effect from September 2010.
He was Chief Executive Officer of DuPont from 1998 to 2009, and
Chairman from 1999 to 2009. He joined DuPont in 1970 after
receiving a B.S. in industrial engineering from the University of
Tennessee and held various manufacturing and business assignments,
including a six-year, Tokyo-based posting as President of DuPont Asia/
Pacific. He is Chairman of the National Academy of Engineering and
is a founding member of the International Business Council. He has
previously served as Chairman of The Business Council, Catalyst, the
Society of Chemical Industry – American Section and the World
Business Council for Sustainable Development.
He is a member of the board of Directors of Bank of America
Corporation, having previously served as Chairman from 2010 until
September 2014, and is a member of the board of Directors of
Deere & Company.
Chairman of the Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee and
Member of the Remuneration Committee
GERARD KLEISTERLEE
Non-executive Director
Born September 28, 1946. A Dut ch national, appointed a
Non-executive Director of the Company with effect from November
2010.
He was President/Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board
of Management of Koninklijke Philips N.V. from 2001 to 2011.
Having joined Philips in 1974, he he ld several positions before being
appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Philips’ Components division in
1999 and Executive Vice-President of Philips in 2000. From 2010 to
2013, he was a member of the board of Directors of Dell Inc. and,
from 2009 to April 2014, he was a member of the Supervisory Board
of Daimler AG.
He is Chairman of Vodafone Group plc and a Non-executive Director
of IBEX Global Solutions plc.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Member of the Audit
Committee
SIR NIGEL SHEINWALD GCMG
Non-executive Director
Born June 26, 1953. A British national, appointed a Non-executive
Director of the Company with effect from July 2012.
He was a senior British diplomat who served as British Ambassador to
the USA from 2007 to 2012, before retiring from the Diplomatic
Service. Prior to this, he served as Foreign Policy and Defence Adviser
to the Prime Minister, and Head of the Cabinet Office Defence and
Overseas Secretariat. He served as British Ambassador and Permanent
Representative to the European Union in Brussels from 2000 to 2003.
He joined the Diplomatic Servic e in 1976 and served in Brussels,
Washington, Moscow, and in a wide range of policy roles in London.
He is a Senior Adviser to the Universal Music Group and a Visiting
Professor and Council Member of King’s College, London. In January
2015, he was appointed a Non-execu tive Director of the Innovia
Group.
Member of the Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee
LINDA G. STUNTZ
Non-executive Director
Born September 11, 1954. A US national, appointed a
Non-executive Director of the Company with effect from June 2011.
She is a founding partner of the law firm of Stuntz, Davis & Staffier,
P.C., based in Washington, DC. Her law practice includes energy
and environmental regulation, as well as matters relating to government
support of technology development and transfer. She chaired the
Electricity Advisory Committee to the US Department of Energy from
2008 to 2009, and was a member of the Board of Directors of
Schlumberger Limited from 1993 to 2010. From 1989 to 1993, she
held senior policy positions at the US Department of Energy, including
Deputy Secretary. She played a principal role in the development and
enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 1992. From 1981 to 1987, she
was an Associate Minority Counsel and Minority Counsel to the
Energy and Commerce Committee of the US House of Representatives.
She is a member of the boards of Directors of Raytheon Company and
Edison International.
Member of the Audit Committee

60 GOVERNANCE
THE BOARD OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
THE BOARD OF ROYAL DUTCH
SHELL PLC CONTINUED
PATRICIA A. WOERTZ
Non-executive Director
Born March 17, 1953. A US nationa l, appointed a Non-executive
Director of the Company with effect from June 1, 2014.
She is Chairman and former Chief Executive Officer of Archer Daniels
Midland Company in the USA, which she joined in 2006. She began
her career as a certified public accountant with Ernst & Ernst in
Pittsburgh, USA before joining Gulf Oil Corporation in 1977 where
she held various positions in refining, marketing, strategic planning
and finance. Following the merger of Gulf and Chevron in 1987, she
led international operations as President of Chevron Canada and,
later, Chevron International Oil Company. With the merger of Chevron
and Texaco in 2001, she was Executiv e Vice President responsible for
global refining, marketing, lubricant, and supply and trading
operations until 2006.
She is a member of the boards of Directors of The Procter & Gamble
Company, UI LABS and World Business Chicago. She also leads the
US section of the US – Brazil CEO Forum and is a member of The
Business Council. In 2010, the US President appointed her to The
President’s Export Council.
Member of the Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee
GERRIT ZALM
Non-executive Director
Born May 6, 1952. A Dutch nationa l, appointed a Non-executive
Director of the Company with effect from January 1, 2013.
He was an adviser to Pricewat erhouseCoopers during 2007,
Chairman of the trustees of the International Accounting Standards
Board from 2007 to 2010, an adviser to Permira from 2007 to
2008, and Chief Financial Officer of DSB Bank from 2007 to 2008.
He was the Minister of Finance of t he Netherlands twice, from 1994
to 2002 and from 2003 to 2007. In between, he was Chairman of
the parliamentary party of the VVD. Prior to 1994, he was head of the
Netherlands Bureau for Economic Policy Analysis, a professor at Vrije
Universiteit Amsterdam and held various positions at the Ministry of
Finance and at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. He studied General
Economics at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam and received an Honorary
Doctorate in Economics from this university.
He is Chairman of the Managing Board of ABN AMRO Bank N.V., a
position he has held since 2010.
Member of the Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee and
the Remuneration Committee
MICHIEL BRANDJES
Company Secretary
Born December 14, 1954. A Dutch na tional, appointed as Company
Secretary and General Counsel Corporate of the Company in
February 2005.
He joined Shell in 1980 as a Legal Adviser and was later appointed
Head of Legal in Singapore. Following a period as Head of Legal in
China, he was appointed Company Secretary of Royal Dutch
Petroleum Company. In June 2014, he was appointed a
Non-executive Director of Constellium N.V.

GOVERNANCE 61
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SENIOR MANAGEMENT
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
The Senior Management of the Company comprises the Executive
Directors and those listed below. All are members of the Executive
Committee (see page 68).
JOHN ABBOTT
Downstrea m Director
Born March 24, 1960. A British natio nal, appointed Downstream
Director with effect from October 2013. Previously, he was Executive
Vice President Manufacturing, responsible for oil refineries and
petrochemicals plants worldwi de. He joined Shell in 1981, and has
held a variety of management positions in refining, chemicals and
upstream heavy oil, working in Canada, the Netherlands, Singapore,
Thailand, the UK and the USA.
HARRY BREKELMANS
Projects & Tech nology Director
Born June 11, 1965. A Dutch national, appointed Projects &
Technology Director with effect fr om October 1, 2014. Previously, he
was Executive Vice President for Upstream International Operated
based in the Netherlands. He joined Shell in 1990, and has held a
variety of management positions in Exploration and Production, Internal
Audit, and Group Strategy and Planning. From 2011 to 2013, he
was Country Chairman – Russia and Executive Vice President for Russia
and the Caspian region.
ANDREW BROWN
Upstrea m International Director
Born January 29, 1962. A British na tional, appointed Upstream
International Directo r with effect from April 2012. Previously, he was
Executive Vice President for Shell’s activities in Qatar and a member of
the Upstream International Leadership Team. He was awarded the
Order of the British Empire in 2012 for his services to British-Qatari
business relations.
DONNY CHING
Legal Director
Born February 14, 1964. A Malaysi an national, appointed Legal
Director with effect from February 10, 2014. Previously, he was
General Counsel for the Project & Technology business based in the
Netherlands. He joined Shell in 1988 based in Australia, moving to
Hong Kong and later to London. In 2008, he was appointed Head of
Legal at Shell Singapore, having served as Associate General Counsel
for the Gas & Power business in Asia-Pacific.
HUGH MITCHELL
Chief Human Resources & Corporate O fficer
Born February 13, 1957. A British na tional, appointed Chief Human
Resources & Corporate Officer with effect from July 2009. Previously,
he was Human Resources Director of Shell. In 2003, he was
appointed Director International, one of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group’s
Corporate Centre Directors, having served as HR Vice President for the
Global Oil Products business. He is a Non-executive Director of RSA
Insurance Group plc.
MARVIN ODUM
Upstrea m Americas Director
Born December 13, 1958. A US natio nal, appointed Upstream
Americas Director with effect from July 2009. Previously, he was
Executive Vice President for the Americas for Shell Exploration &
Production. In 2008, he was appointed President of Shell Oil
Company, having served as Execu tive Vice President since 2005 with
responsibility for Shell’s Exploration & Production businesses in the
western hemisphere.

62 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
MANAGEMENT REPORT
This Directors’ Report, together with the “Strategic Report” on
pages 6-57, serves as the Management Report for the purpose of
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.8R.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND DIVIDENDS
The “Consolidated Statement of Income” and “Consolidated Balance
Sheet” can be found on pages 107 and 108 respectively.
The table below sets out the dividends on each class of share and
each class of American Depositary Share (ADS [A]). The Company
announces its dividends in US dollar s and, at a later date, announces
the euro and sterling equivalent amounts using a market exchange
rate.
[A] ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbols RDS.A and RDS.B.
Each ADS represents two shares – two A shares in the case of RDS.A or two B shares in the
case of RDS.B.
Dividends on Royal Dutch Shell plc A shares (A shares) are paid by
default in euros, although holders are able to elect to receive dividends
in sterling. Dividends on Royal Dutch Shell plc B shares (B shares) are
paid by default in sterling, although holders are able to elect to receive
dividends in euros. Dividends on ADSs are paid in US dollars.
The Scrip Dividend Programme, which enabled shareholders to
increase their shareholding by choosing to receive new shares instead
of cash dividends (if approved by the Board), was cancelled with
effect from the second quarter 2014 in terim dividend onwards [B]. The
programme is being reintroduced with effect from the first quarter
2015 interim dividend onwards. More information can be found at
www.shell.com/scrip.
[B] Only new A shares were issued under the pro gramme, including to shareholders who held
Bs h a r e s .
The Directors have announced a fourth-quarter interim dividend as set
out in the table below, payable on March 20, 2015, to shareholders
on the Register of Members at close of business on February 13,
2015. The closing date for dividend currency election was
February 27, 2015 [C]. The euro and sterling equivalents
announcement date was March 6, 2015.
[C] A different currency election date may apply t o shareholders holding shares in a securities
account with a bank or financial institution ultim ately holding through Euroclear Nederland.
Such shareholders can obtain the applicabl e deadlines from their broker, financial
intermediary, bank or financial institutio n where they hold their securities account.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE
PREPARATION OF THE ANNUAL REPORT
AND ACCOUNTS
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report including
the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
regulations. Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have
prepared the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
as adopted by the European Union (EU). In preparing these financial
statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS as
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Under
company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state
of affairs of Shell and the Company and of the profit or loss of Shell
and the Company for that period. In preparing these financial
statements, the Directors are required to:
/H18546select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
/H18546make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and
prudent; and
/H18546state whether IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the
IASB have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records
that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of Shell and the
Company and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the
financial position of Shell and the Company and to enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
2006 and, as regards the Consolidat ed Financial Statements, with
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and therefore are in accordance with
IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Directors are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of Shell and the Company and hence for
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions can be found on
pages 58-60, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
/H18546the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance
with IFRS as adopted by the EU, and with IFRS as issued by the
IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial
position and profit of Shell and the Company; and
/H18546the Management Report includes a fair review of the development
and performance of the business and the position of Shell, together
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it
faces.
Furthermore, so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no
relevant audit information of whi ch the auditors are unaware, and
each of the Directors has taken all the steps that ought to have been
taken in order to become aware of any relevant audit information and
to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
DIVIDENDS 2014
As h a r e s Bs h a r e s [ A ] AA D S s BA D S s
$ € pence $ pe nce € $$
Q1 0.47 0.3468 28.03 0.47 28.03 0.3468 0.94 0.94
Q2 0.47 0.3632 29.09 0.47 29.09 0.3632 0.94 0.94
Q3 0.47 0.3828 30.16 0.47 30.16 0.3828 0.94 0.94
Q4 0.47 0.4329 31.20 0.47 31.20 0.4329 0.94 0.94
Total announced in respect of the year 1.88 1.5257 118.48 1.88 118.48 1.5257 3.76 3.76
Amount paid duringt h ey e a r 1.4172 114.16 114.16 1.4172 3.72 3.72
[A] It is expected that holders of B shares will receive dividends through t he dividend access mechanism applicable to such shares. The dividend acces s mechanism is described more fully on
page 72.

GOVERNANCE 63
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors consider that the Annual Report including the financial
statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess
Shell’s performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the
Shell website (www.shell.com). Legislation in the UK governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions.
GOING CONCERN
The “Strategic Report” includes information about Shell’s financial
strategy, financial condition, and liquidity and cash flows, as well as
the factors, including the principal risks, likely to affect Shell’s future
development. Further information on the management of Shell’s capital
structure and use of financial instruments to support its operating plan
can be found in Notes 14 and 19 to the “Consolidated Financial
Statements” respectively.
Shell’s operating plan for the foreseeable future demonstrates its ability
to operate its cash-generating activities, selling products to a
diversified customer base. These activities are expected to generate
sufficient cash to enable Shell to service its financing requirements, pay
dividends and fund its investing activities. As a result, the Directors
have a reasonable expectation that Shell has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing
the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements contained
in this Report.
REPURCHASES OF SHARES
On May 20, 2014, shareholders appr oved an authority, which will
expire at the end of the 2015 Annual General Meeting (AGM), for the
Company to repurchase up to a maximum of 633 million of its shares
(excluding purchases for empl oyee share plans). During 2014,
55.3 million A shares with a nominal value of €3.9 million
($4.7 million) (0.9% of the Company’s total issued share capital at
December 31, 2014) and 32.4 million B shares with a nominal value
of €2.3 million ($2.7 million) (0.5% of the Company’s total issued
share capital at December 31, 2014) we re purchased for cancellation
for a total cost of $3.3 billion including expenses, at an average price
of $37.74 per A share and $38.33 per B share. The purpose of the
share buyback programme is to offset the dilution created by the
issuance of shares for the Company’s Scrip Dividend Programme [A].
[A] The Scrip Dividend Programme was cancelled with effect from the second quarter 2014
interim dividend onwards, and is being reintroduced with effect from the first quarter 2015
interim dividend onwards. More informa tion can be found at www.shell.com/scrip.
From January 1, 2015, to February 17, 2015, a further 12.7 million
A shares (0.2% of the Company’s total issued share capital at
December 31, 2014) were purchased f or cancellation for a total cost
of $0.4 billion including expen ses, at an average price of $32.15
per share.
The Board continues to regard the ability to repurchase issued shares
in suitable circumstances as an important part of the financial
management of the Company. A resolution will be proposed at the
2015 AGM to renew the authority for the Company to purchase its
own share capital up to specified limits for a further year. More detail
of this proposal is given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Directors during the year were Josef Ackermann (who stood down
on May 20, 2014), Ben van Beurden (appointed with effect from
January 1, 2014), Guy Elliott, Eul een Goh (appointed with effect from
September 1, 2014), Simon Henry, Charles O. Holliday, Gerard
Kleisterlee, Jorma Ollila, Sir Nigel Sheinwald, Linda G. Stuntz,
Hans Wijers, Patricia A. Woertz (appointed with effect from June 1,
2014) and Gerrit Zalm.
RETIREMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code), all
Directors will retire at the 2015 AG M and, subject to the Articles of
Association and their wish to continue as a Director of the Company,
seek reappointment by shareholders. Jorma Ollila will not be seeking
reappointment and will be standing down at the conclusion of the
2015 AGM after having served as Chairman since June 2006 [A].
[A] Subject to his reappointment as a Director of the Company by shareholders at the 2015
AGM, Charles O.Holliday will succeed Jorma Ollila as Chairman with effect from the
conclusion of the meeting.
The biographies of all current Directors are given on pages 58-60
and, for those seeking reappointment, also in the Notice of Annual
General Meeting. Details of the Executive Directors’ contracts can be
found on page 97 and copies are available for inspection from the
Company Secretary. Furthermore, a copy of the form of these contracts
has been filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
as an exhibit.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors
are set out in their letters of appointment with the Company which, in
accordance with the Code, are available for inspection from the
Company Secretary.
No Director is, or was, materially interested in any contract subsisting
during or at the end of the year that was significant in relation to the
Company’s business. See also “Related party transactions” below.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The interests (in shares of the Company or calculated equivalents) of
the Directors in office at the end of the year, including any interests of
a “connected person” (as defined in the Disclosure and Transparency
Rules of the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority), can be found in the
“Directors’ Remuneration Report” on pages 87-88.
Changes in Directors’ share interests during the period from
December 31, 2014, to March 11, 2015, including changes in the
interests in shares awarded under the Long-term Incentive Plan and the
Deferred Bonus Plan, can also be foun d in the “Directors’ Remuneration
Report” on pages 87-88.
QUALIFYING THIRD-PARTY INDEMNITIES
The Company has entered into a deed of indemnity with each Director
who served during the year under identical terms. The deeds indemnify
the Directors to the widest extent permitted by the applicable laws of
England against all liability incurred as a Director or employee of the
Company or of certain other entities.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Other than disclosures given in Notes 9 and 27 to the “Consolidated
Financial Statements”, there were no transactions or proposed
transactions that were material to either the Company or any related
party. Nor were there any transactions with any related party that were
unusual in their nature or conditions.

64 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
No donations were made by the Company or any of its subsidiaries to
political parties or organisations during the year. Shell Oil Company
administers the non-partisan Shell Oil Company Employees’ Political
Awareness Committee (SEPAC), a political action committee registered
with the US Federal Election Commission. Eligible employees may
make voluntary personal contributions to the SEPAC.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND POST-BALANCE SHEET
EVENTS
There are no material recent developments and post-balance sheet
events to report.
LIKELY FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
Information relating to likely future developments can be found in the
“Strategic Report”.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Shell carries out its research and development programmes in a
worldwide network of technology centres complemented by external
partnerships. The main technology centres are in India, the
Netherlands and the USA, with other centres in Canada, China,
Germany, Norway, Oman and Qatar. Further details of Shell’s
research and development, including expenditure, can be found in the
“Strategic Report” on page 10 as well as in the “Consolidated
Statement of Income”.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Information concerning diversity and inclusion can be found in the
“Strategic Report” on page 57.
EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION AND INVOLVEMENT
Information concerning employee communication and involvement can
be found in the “Strategic Report” on page 56.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
A summary of Shell’s approach to cor porate social responsibility can
be found in the “Strategic Report” on pages 52-56. Further details will
be available in the Shell Sustainability Report 2014.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Information relating to greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the
“Strategic Report” on page 53.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT, OBJECTIVES
AND POLICIES
Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and Shell’s financial risk
management objectives and policies, and exposure to market risk
(including price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in
Note 19 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company’s issued share capital as at December 31, 2014, is set
out in Note 10 to the “Parent Company Financial Statements”. The
percentage of the total issued share capital represented by each class
of share is given below.
SHARE CAPITAL PERCENTAGE %
Share class
Ao r d inary 61.55
Bo r d inary 38.45
Sterlingd eferred de minimis
TRANSFER OF SECURITIES
There are no significant restrictions on the transfer of securities.
SHARE OWNERSHIP TRUSTS AND TRUST-LIKE ENTITIES
Shell has three primary employee share ownership trusts and trust-like
entities: a Dutch foundation (stichting) and two US Rabbi Trusts. The
shares held by the Dutch foundation are voted by its Board and the
shares in the US Rabbi Trusts are voted by the Voting Trustee, Evercore
Trust Company, N.A. Both the Board of the Dutch foundation and the
Voting Trustee are independent of Shell.
The UK Shell All Employee Share Ownership Plan has a separate
related share ownership trust. Shares held by the trust are voted by its
trustee, EES Corporate Trustees Limited, as directed by the participants.
SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS
Information concerning significa nt shareholdings can be found on
page 180.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
Information concerning the Articles of Association can be found on
pages 71-75.
LISTING RULE INFORMATION [A]
Information concerning the amount of interest capitalised by Shell can
be found in Note 6 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
[A] This information is given in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4R.
AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has signified its willingness to continue in
office and a resolution for its reappointment will be proposed at the
2015 AGM.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company’s statement on corporate governance is included in the
“Corporate governance” report and is incorporated in this Directors’
Report by way of reference.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The AGM will be held on May 19, 2015, at the Circustheater,
Circusstraat 4, 2586 CW, The Hagu e, The Netherlands. Details of
the business to be put to shareholders at the AGM can be found in the
Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board
/s/ Michiel Brandjes
Michiel Brandjes
Company Secretary
March 11, 2015

GOVERNANCE 65
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to introduce this report which will be my last before I step
down as Chairman and a Director of Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Company)
at this year’s Annual General Meeting (AGM). I have always taken my
responsibility to ensure we meet the highest standards of corporate
governance very seriously, as I believe such standards are essential to the
long-term success of the Company and maintaining investors’ trust. During
the year we have again applied the main principles and relevant
provisions of the 2012 version of the Financial Reporting Council’s UK
Corporate Governance Code (the Code), and I hope this report gives you
a good understanding of the systems of governance and control which
continue to operate within the Company.
Following my decision to stand down as Chairman after a period of nine
years, the Nomination and Succession Committee, under the
chairmanship of the Deputy Chairman, conducted a thorough search and
benchmarking exercise of internal and external candidates. We were
delighted to announce in October 2014 the appointment of Charles O.
Holliday, currently a Non-executive Director, as my successor. Chad has
a distinguished track record as an international businessman and his
appointment has the unanimous support of the Board.
We welcomed two Non-executive Directors, Euleen Goh and
Patricia A. Woertz, following th eir appointment at the 2014 AGM.
They both received full and tailored induction programmes, which are
ongoing, and they are already bringing their individual skills,
knowledge and experience to the boardroom.
The Board and the Nomination and Succession Committee believe the
Board should be a diverse mix of people and increasing its diversity is
a priority in our succession planning. Gender diversity is an important
element of this mix and last year I stated our aim that by 2015 at least
25% of the Directors would be women. This is in line with the
recommendations of the report by Lord Davies of Abersoch entitled
Women on Boards (Davies Report) and I am pleased to report that we
succeeded in meeting our goal by the end of 2014.
In accordance with the Code, we conducted an evaluation of our
performance during the year, along with that of the Board committees
and individual directors. This was led by the Nomination and
Succession Committee. However, unlike last year, the process was
conducted in-house rather than being externally facilitated. One of the
areas that we looked at was the extent to which suggestions from the
2013 process were implemented in 2014. These included giving
greater focus to strategic matters, industry trends and risk, and to
increasing Board exposure to senior management below the level of
the Executive Committee. I am pleased to say that the Board
concluded that good progress had been made in all these areas.
Although we did not engage the services of an external facilitator, the
process again proved to be very useful and benefited in particular from fresh
insights and perspectives offered by the new Directors appointed during the
year. In keeping with the Code, it is the intention that the annual evaluation
process will continue to be externally facilitated every three years.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Directors, past and present, for
their commitment and support over the years in achieving the high
standards of corporate governance we have become accustomed to
within the Company. I wish my successor and the Board long and
continued success.
Jorma Ollila
Chairman
March 11, 2015
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE
The Board confirms that throughout the year the Company has applied
the main principles and complied with the relevant provisions set out in
the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September
2012 [A]. In addition to complying with applicable corporate
governance requirements in the UK, the Company must follow the rules
of Euronext Amsterdam as well as Dutch securities laws because of its
listing on that exchange. The Company must likewise follow US
securities laws and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules and
regulations because its securities are registered in the USA and listed
on the NYSE.
[A] In September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council issued an updated version of the
Code which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2014.
NYSE GOVERNANCE STANDARDS
In accordance with the NYSE rules for foreign private issuers, the
Company follows home-country practice in relation to corporate
governance. However, foreign private issuers are required to have an
audit committee that satisfies the requirements of the US Securities and
Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Rule 10A-3. The Company’s Audit
Committee satisfies such requirements. The NYSE also requires a foreign
private issuer to provide certain written affirmations and notices to the
NYSE, as well as a summary of the significant ways in which its
corporate governance practices differ from those followed by domestic
US companies under NYSE listing s tandards (see NYSE Rule 303A.11).
The Company’s summary of its corporate governance differences is given
below and can be found at www.shell.com/investor.
Non-executive Director i ndependence
The Board follows the provisions of the Code in determining Non-
executive Director independence, which states that at least half of the
Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-executive
Directors determined by the Board to be independent. In the case of
the Company, the Board has determined that all the Non-executive
Directors as at the end of 2014 are wholly independent.
Nominating/corporate gover nance co mmittee a nd
compensatio n committee
The NYSE listing standards require that a listed company maintain a
nominating/corporate governance committee and a compensation
committee, both composed entirely of independent directors and with
certain specific responsibilities. The Company’s Nomination and
Succession Committee and Remuneration Committee both comply with
these requirements, except that the terms of reference of the
Nomination and Succession Committee require only a majority of the
committee members to be independent.
Audit Co mmittee
As required by NYSE listing standards, the Company maintains an
Audit Committee for the purpose of assisting the Board’s oversight of its
financial statements, its internal audit function and its independent
auditors. The Company’s Audit Committee is in full compliance with the
SEC’s Rule 10A-3 and Section 303A.06 of the NYSE Listed Company
Manual. However, in accordance with English law, the Company’s
Audit Committee makes recommendations to the Board for it to put to
shareholders for approval in general meeting regarding the
appointment, reappointment and removal of independent auditors.
Consequently, the Company’s Audit Committee is not directly
responsible for the appointment of independent auditors.
Shareholder approval o f share-based co mpensation
plans
The Company complies with the listing rules of the UK Listing Authority
(UKLA), which require shareholder approval for the adoption of share-
based compensation plans which are either long-term incentive plans
in which one or more Directors can participate or plans which involve
or may involve the issue of new shares or the transfer of

66 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
treasury shares. Under the UKLA rules, such plans cannot be changed
to the advantage of participants without shareholder approval, except
for certain minor amendments, for example to benefit the administration
of the plan or to take account of tax benefits. The rules on the
requirements to seek sharehol der approval for share-based
compensation plans, including those in respect of material revisions to
such plans, may deviate from the NYSE listing standards.
Code o f business co nduct a nde t h i c s
The NYSE listing standards require that listed companies adopt a code
of business conduct and ethics for all directors, officers and employees
and promptly disclose any waivers of the code for directors or
executive officers. The Company has adopted the Shell General
Business Principles (see below), which satisfy the NYSE requirements.
The Company also has internal procedures in place by which any
employee can raise in confidence accounting, internal accounting
controls and auditing concerns. Additionally, any employee can report
concerns to management by telephone or over the internet without
jeopardising their position (see below).
SHELL GENERAL BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
The Shell General Business Principles define how Shell subsidiaries are
expected to conduct their affairs. These principles include, among
other things, Shell’s commitment to support fundamental human rights in
line with the legitimate role of business and to contribute to sustainable
development. They can be fou nd at www.shell.com/sgbp.
SHELL CODE OF CONDUCT
Directors and employees are required to comply with the Shell Code of
Conduct, which is intended to help them put Shell’s business principles
into practice. This code clarifies the basic rules and standards they are
expected to follow and the behaviour expected of them. It can be
found at www.shell.co m/codeofconduct.
CODE OF ETHICS
Executive Directors and Senior Financial Officers of Shell must also
comply with a Code of Ethics. This code is specifically intended to
meet the requirements of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and
the listing requirements of the NYSE (see above). It can be found at
www.shell.com/codeofethics.
SHELL GLOBAL HELPLINE
Employees, contract staff, third parties with whom Shell has a business
relationship (such as customers, s uppliers and agents), and any member
of the public (including shareholders) may raise ethics and compliance
concerns through the Shell Global Helpline. This is a worldwide
confidential reporting mechanism, operated by an external third party,
which is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week by telephone
and at www.shell.com or www.compliance-helpline.com/shell.
BOARD STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION
During 2014, the Board comprised the Ch airman; two Executive Directors,
namely the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the Chief Financial Officer
(CFO); and Non-executive Directors, including the Deputy Chairman and
Senior Independent Director [A], as follows:
Period
Number of Non-executive
Directors
January 1 to May 20 8
May 21 to May 31 7
June 1 to August 31 8
September 1 to December 31 9
A list of current Directors, including their biographies, can be found on
pages 58-60.
[A] Josef Ackermann stood down as a Non-executive Director on May 20, 2014. Euleen Goh
and Patricia A. Woertz were appointed as Non-executive Directors with effect from
September 1, 2014, and June 1, 2014, respectively.
The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the long-term
success of the Company. Generally it meets eight times a year [B] and
has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it. This includes: overall
strategy and management; corporate structure and capital structure;
financial reporting and control, including approval of the Annual
Report and Form 20-F, and interim dividends; oversight and review of
risk management and internal contr ol; significant contracts; and
succession planning and new Board appointments. The full list of
matters reserved to the Board for decision can be found at
www.shell.com/investor.
[B] See page 67 for the number of meetings held in 2014.
ROLE OF DIRECTORS
The roles of the Chairman, a non-executive role, and the CEO are
separate, and the Board has agreed their respective responsibilities.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and management of the
Board and for ensuring that the Board and its committees function
effectively. One way in which this is achieved is by ensuring Directors
receive accurate, timely and clear information. He is also responsible
for agreeing and regularly reviewing the training and development
needs of each Director (see “Induction and training” on page 67)
which he does with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
The CEO bears overall responsibility for the implementation of the
strategy agreed by the Board, the operational management of the
Company and the business enterprises connected with it. He is
supported in this by the Executive Committee which he chairs (see
page 68).
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Non-executive Directors are appointed by the Board or by
shareholders at general meetings and, in accordance with the Code,
must seek re-election by shareholder s on an annual basis. Their letter of
appointment refers to a specific term of office, such term being subject
to the provisions of the Code and the Company’s Articles of
Association (the Articles). Upon appointment, Non-executive Directors
confirm they are able to allocate sufficient time to meet the
expectations of the role. Appointments are subject to three months’
notice, and there is no compensation provision for early termination.
The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range and balance of skills
and international business exp erience to Shell. Through their
contribution to Board meetings and to Board committee meetings, they
are expected to challenge constructively and help develop proposals
on strategy and bring independent judgement on issues of
performance and risk. Generally, prior to each meeting of the Board,
the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors meet without the
Executive Directors to discuss, among other things, the performance of
individual Executive Directors. A number of Non-executive Directors
also meet major shareholders from time to time.
The role of the Senior Independent Director is to provide a sounding
board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other
Directors when necessary. The Senior Independent Director is available
to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal
channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO has failed to resolve or for which
such contact is inappropriate.
All the Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be
wholly independent.

GOVERNANCE 67
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Certain statutory duties with respect to directors’ conflicts of interest are
in force under the Companies Act 2006 (the Act). In accordance with
the Act and the Articles, the Board may authorise any matter that
otherwise may involve any of the Directors breaching his or her duty to
avoid conflicts of interest. The Board has adopted a procedure to
address these requirements. It includes the Directors completing
detailed conflict of interest questionnaires. The matters disclosed in the
questionnaires are reviewed by the Board and, if considered
appropriate, authorised in accordance with the Act and the Articles.
Conflicts of interest as well as any gifts and hospitality received by and
provided by Directors are kept under review by the Board.
SIGNIFICANT COMMITMENTS OF THE CHAIRMAN
The Chairman’s other significant commitments are given in his
biography on page 58.
INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL ADVICE
All Directors may seek independent pr ofessional advice in connection
with their role as a Director. All Directors have access to the advice
and services of the Company Secretary. The Company has provided
both indemnities and directors’ and officers’ insurance to the Directors
in connection with the performance of their responsibilities. Copies of
these indemnities and the directors’ and officers’ insurance policies are
open to inspection. Copies of these indemnities have been previously
filed with the SEC and are incorporated by reference as an exhibit to
this Report.
BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR
The Board met seven times during the year. Six of the meetings were
held in The Hague, the Netherlands, and one meeting was held in
Seoul, South Korea. The agenda for each meeting included a number
of regular items, including reports from the CEO, the CFO and the
other members of the Executive Committee, from each of the Board
committees and from the various functions, including finance (which
includes investor relations), health and security, human resources, and
legal (which includes the Comp any Secretary). The Board also
considered and approved each of the quarterly, half-year and full-year
financial results and dividend announcements and, at most meetings,
considered a number of investment, divestment and financing
proposals.
In part as a result of the performance evaluation process undertaken in
2013, the Board gave greater focus in 2014 to strategic and
performance issues. In June, it held a full-day session on strategy
matters which included a review of the tight-gas and liquids-rich shale
and Oil Products businesses, and the agenda for further business
reviews over the following 12 months. During the year, the Board also
received reports and presentations on certain of our activities,
including those in Australia, Canada, China, Iraq, Malaysia, Nigeria,
Russia, Ukraine and the USA (including Alaska), and on asset integrity
and process safety, litigation, risk management, safety and
environmental performance, and se nior management succession. On
occasion, it held informal discussions with leading independent experts
on matters of interest, such as strategy, climate change and other
environmental concerns, and energy transition scenarios.
INDUCTION AND TRAINING
Following appointment to the Board, Directors receive a
comprehensive induction tailored to their individual needs. This
includes site visits and meetings with senior management to enable
them to build up a detailed understanding of Shell’s business and
strategy, and the key risks and issues which they face. For Euleen Goh
a n dP a t r i c i aA .W o e r t z ,w h ow e r ea p p o i n t e dw i t he f f e c tf r o m
September 1, 2014, and June 1, 2014, resp ectively, Director-specific
briefing materials were made available and induction sessions were
held with various functions and businesses.
Throughout the year, regular updates on developments in legal matters,
governance and accounting are provided to Directors. The Board
regards site visits as an integral part of ongoing Director training.
Additional training is available so that Directors can update their skills
and knowledge as appropriate.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Attendance during 2014 for all Bo ard and Board committee meetings
is given in the table below.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE MEETINGS [A]
Board
Audit
Committee
Corporate and
Social Responsibility
Committee
Nomination and
Succession
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Josef Ackermann 2/2 2/2 2/2
Ben van Beurden 7/7
Guy Elliott 7/7 6/6 4/4
Euleen Goh 2/2 2/2
Simon Henry 7/7
Charles O. Holliday 7/7 5/5 4/4
Gerard Kleisterlee 7/7 6/6 2/2
Jorma Ollila 7/7 6/6
Sir Nigel Sheinwald 7/7 5/5
Linda G. Stuntz 7/7 6/6
Hans Wijers 7/7 6/6 2/2
Patricia A. Woertz 4/4 2/3
Gerrit Zalm 7/7 5/5 2/2
[A] The first figure represents attendance and the second figure the possible number of meetings. For example, 7/7 signifies attendance at seven out o f seven possible meetings. Where a Director
stood down from the Board or a Board committee during the year, or was appointe d during the year, only meetings before standing down or after the date of a ppointment are shown.

68 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
BOARD EVALUATION
During the year, the Board carried out a performance evaluation of
itself, its Committees, the Chairman and each of the other Directors.
This was led by the Nomination and Succession Committee and, unlike
the process in 2013, was conducted in-house without engaging the
services of an external facilitator. In accordance with the Code, it is
the intention that the evaluation process will be externally facilitated
every three years.
The 2014 process consisted of th e Chairman holding one-to-one
interviews with each of the Directors. The Directors were asked to
consider specific matters in advance, such as the functioning and
effectiveness of the Board, the extent to which suggestions from the
2013 process had been implemen ted and the major issues and
challenges for 2015 and beyond. Th e Deputy Chairman conducted a
separate review of the Chairman’s performance which involved each
Director completing a confidential questionnaire (see below) and an
offer to meet and discuss any particular issues. A review of each Board
committee was undertaken by the respective Committee Chairman by
questionnaire and discussed in the relevant committee.
In January 2015, the performance of the Board as a whole and the
Board committees was discussed by the Nomination and Succession
Committee and subsequently by the full Board. The discussions were
led by the Chairman and focused on issues such as the functioning,
effectiveness and performance of the Board and Board committees, the
follow up on the priorities for change identified from the performance
evaluation held in 2013 and the qual ity of support. Discussion also
focussed on the priorities of the Board in 2015 and beyond, and it
was agreed these included the following: the impact of the oil price on
the Company’s financial framewo rk; performance management and
return on investment; and the Company’s strategy regarding climate
change.
The performance evaluation of the Chairman was reviewed in a
session led by the Deputy Chairman with attendance by all Directors
except for the Chairman. Directors had previously answered questions
concerning the performance of the Chairman in relation to certain
matters, including the management of Board meetings, communication
and relationships with the CEO and other Directors, relationships with
major shareholders and other stakeholders, and the key challenges for
2015 and beyond. The Deputy Chairm an reported that the Directors
had commented favourably on the Chairman’s open and
approachable style and that the unanimous view of the Chairman’s
performance in 2014 was positive. In view of the appointment of
C h a r l e sO .H o l l i d a ya ss u c c e s s o rto the current Chairman following
the forthcoming AGM, it was recognised that 2015 would be a
transitional year for the Chairman role.
The results of the evaluation of the CEO were discussed by the
Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Executive Committee operates under the direction of the CEO in
support of his responsibility for the overall management of the
Company’s business and affairs. The CEO has final authority in all
matters of management that are not within the duties and authorities of
the Board or of the shareholders’ general meeting.
The current composition of the Executive Committee is as follows:
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Ben van Beurden CEO [A][B][C]
Simon Henry CFO [A][B]
John Abbott Downstream Director [B]
Harry Brekelmans Projects & Technology Director [B][D]
Andrew Brown Upstream International Director [B][E]
DonnyC h ing Legal Director [B][F]
Hugh Mitchell Chief Human Resources &
Corporate Officer [B]
Marvin Odum Upstream Americas Director [B]
[A] Director of the Company.
[B] Designated an Executive Officer pursuant t o US Exchange Act Rule 3b-7. Beneficially owns
less than 1% of outstanding classes of securities.
[C] Ben van Beurden was appointed CEO in succession to Peter Voser with effect from
January 1, 2014.
[D] Harry Brekelmans was appointed Projects & Technology Director in succession to Matthias
Bichsel with effect from October 1, 2014.
[E] For the period January 20, 2014 to March 31, 2014, Maarten Wetselaar, Executive Vice
President Integrated Gas, was acting Upstream In ternational Director while Andrew Brown was
on recuperation leave follo wing a medical procedure.
[F] Donny Ching was appointed Legal Director in succession to Peter Rees with effect from
February 10, 2014. Peter Rees stood down with effect from January 10, 2014.
BOARD COMMITTEES
There are four Board committees made up of Non-executive Directors.
These are the:
/H18546Audit Committee;
/H18546Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee;
/H18546Nomination and Succession Committee; and
/H18546Remuneration Committee.
Each of these Board committees has produced a report which has
been approved by the relevant chairman. A copy of each committee’s
terms of reference is available from the Company Secretary and can
be found at www.shell.com/investor.
Audit Co mmittee
The Audit Committee report which sets out the composition and work of
the Audit Committee is on pages 76-78.
Corporate a nd Social Respo nsibility Co mmittee
The current members of the Corpor ate and Social Responsibility
Committee are Charles O. Holliday (Chairman of the Committee), Sir
Nigel Sheinwald, Patricia A. Woe rtz (with effect from June 1, 2014)
and Gerrit Zalm. The Committee met five times during the year; the
Committee members’ attendances are shown on page 67.
The Committee has a mandate to maintain a comprehensive overview
of the policies and performance of the subsidiaries of the Company
with respect to the Shell General Business Principles and the Shell
Code of Conduct, as well as major issues of public concern.
Conclusions and recommendations made by the Committee are
reported directly to executive management and the Board.
The Committee fulfils its responsibilities by reviewing the management
of health, safety, security, environmental and social impacts of projects
and operations. It also monitors emerging environmental and social
issues. It additionally provides input into the Shell Sustainability Report
and reviews a draft of the report before publication.
In addition to holding regular formal meetings, the Committee visits
Shell locations and meets with local staff and external stakeholders to
observe how Shell’s standards regarding health, safety, security, the

GOVERNANCE 69
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
environment and social performan ce are being implemented. In 2014,
the Committee visited operations in Canada, including Groundbirch,
Kitimat and the oil sands, and the Rijswijk Technology Centre in the
Netherlands. It also visited Washington, DC, USA where it met with
several non-governmental organisations.
Nomination and Successio n Committee
The members of the Nomination and Succession Committee are Jorma
Ollila (Chairman of the Committee), Guy Elliott (with effect from
May 21, 2014) and Hans Wijers. Josef Ackermann stood down as a
member of the Committee on May 20, 2014. The Committee met six
times during the year; the Committee members’ attendances are shown
on page 67.
The Committee keeps under review the leadership needs of the
Company and identifies and nominates suitable candidates for the
Board’s approval to fill vacancies as and when they arise. In addition,
it makes recommendations on who should be appointed Chairman of
the Audit Committee, the Corporate and Social Responsibility
Committee and the Remuneration Committee and, in consultation with
the relevant chairman, recommends who should sit on the Board
committees. It also makes recommendations on corporate governance
guidelines, monitors compliance with corporate governance
requirements and makes recommendations on disclosures connected
with corporate governance of its appointment processes.
During the year, the Committee dealt with the appointment of the new
Chairman (under the chairmanship of the Deputy Chairman), two new
Non-executive Directors and the new Projects & Technology Director.
In relation to the appointment of the new Chairman, it was assisted by
an external search consultancy (see below) whose main role was to
propose suitable external candidates. After careful consideration of
internal and external candidates against established criteria, including
availability of time to fulfil the responsibilities of the role, the Committee
made a recommendation to the Board to appoint Charles O. Holliday
with effect from the conclusion of the 2015 AGM [A]. The
appointment process for the two new Non-executive Directors involved
the Committee drawing up a candidate profile in terms of skills,
knowledge, experience, nationa lity and gender and, following an
interview and benchmarking process, making a recommendation to the
Board. In both cases, the Board then sought shareholder approval for
the appointments at the 2014 AGM.
In addition to continuing its ongoing programme of succession
planning for the Non-executive Directors, the Committee considered
the Executive Committee talent pipeline, Board committee membership,
and a request from an Executive Director to accept an external
directorship. It also led the Board evaluation process, considered any
potential conflicts of interest and the independence of the Non-
executive Directors and reviewed its terms of reference.
The Board takes the issue of boardroom diversity very seriously and
believes that maintaining an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge,
experience and backgrounds is key to its effective performance. It
believes gender diversity is an important element of this mix. In 2011,
it issued a statement welcoming the recommendations of the Davies
Report and stated that it expected at least 25% of the Directors to be
women by 2015, as recommended by the report. After the
appointment of two women as Directors during the year, there were a
total of three women on the Board at the end of 2014, increasing the
percentage of women to 25%.
As part of its role in identifying and nominating suitable candidates for
the Board’s approval, the Nomination and Succession Committee will
continue to review candidates from a variety of backgrounds and will
seek to produce a list of candidates that fully reflects the Board’s goal
of becoming more diverse.
The Committee maintains contact with leading global search firms to
identify and consider suitable candidates. It used the services of Egon
Zehnder in relation to the appoin tment of the new Chairman, and
Spencer Stuart in relation to the appointment of Euleen Goh [B]. It did
not use an external search consultancy in relation to the appointment of
Patricia A. Woertz. It was not considered necessary to use open
advertising in relation to these appointments.
[A] Charles O. Holliday’s biography can be foun d on page 59. As stated in the biography, he
stood down as Chairman of Bank of America Corporation in September 2014.
[B] Neither Egon Zehnder nor Spencer Stuar t have any connection with the Company other
than that of search consultants.
Remuneratio n Committee
The Directors’ Remuneration Report, which sets out the composition and
work of the Remuneration Committee, the Directors’ remuneration for
2014 and the Directors’ Remunera tion Policy which was approved by
shareholders at the 2014 AGM, is on pages 79-98.
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS
The Board recognises the importance of two-way communication with
the Company’s shareholders. The C hairman, the Deputy Chairman and
Senior Independent Director, the CEO, the CFO and the Executive
Vice President Investor Relations each meet regularly with major
shareholders and report the views of such shareholders to the Board.
As well as the Company giving a balanced report of results and
progress at each AGM, all shareholders have an opportunity to ask
questions in person. Shareholders are also free to contact the
Company directly at any time of the year via dedicated shareholder
email addresses or via dedicated sh areholder telephone numbers as
given on the inside back cover of this Report. Shell’s corporate website
at www.shell.com/investor has inform ation for institutional and retail
shareholders alike.
The Company’s Registrar, Equiniti, operates an internet access facility
for registered shareholders, providing details of their shareholdings at
www.shareview.co.uk. Facilities are also provided for shareholders to
lodge proxy appointments electronically. The Company’s Corporate
Nominee provides a facility for inv estors to hold their shares in the
Company in paperless form.
RESULTS PRESENTATIONS AND ANALYSTS’ MEETINGS
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual results presentations as well as all
major analysts’ meetings are announced in advance on the Shell
website and through a regulatory release. These presentations are
broadcast live via webcast and teleconference. Other meetings with
analysts or investors are not normally announced in advance, nor can
they be followed remotely by webcast or any other means. Procedures
are in place to ensure that discussions in such meetings are always
limited to non-material information or information already in the public
domain.
Results and meeting presentatio ns can be found at www.shell.com.
This is in line with the requirement to ensure that all shareholders and
other parties in the financial market have equal and simultaneous
access to information that may influence the price of the Company’s
securities.
NOTIFICATION OF MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS
Information concerning notifications of major shareholdings can be
found on page 180.
RESPONSIBILITY FOR PREPARING THE ANNUAL
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
Information concerning the responsibility for preparing the Annual
Report and Accounts can be found on page 62.

70 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of risk
management and internal control, and for regularly reviewing its
effectiveness. It has delegated authority to the Audit Committee to
assist it in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to internal control and
financial reporting (see “Audit Committee Report”).
A single overall control framework is in place for the Company and its
subsidiaries that is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives. It therefore only provides a
reasonable and not an absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The following diagram illustrate s the control fra mework’s key
components: “Foundations”, “Management Processes” and
“Organisation”. In 2013, the contr ol framework was updated to put
greater emphasis on the link between objectives, risks, controls and
assurance. “Foundations” comprises the objectives, principles and rules
that underpin and establish boundaries for Shell’s activities.
“Management Processes” refers to the more material management
processes, including how strategy, planning and appraisal are used to
improve performance and how risks are to be managed through
effective controls and assurance. “Organisation” sets out how the
various legal entities relate to each other and how their business
activities are organised and managed, and how authority is
delegated.
CONTROL FRAMEWORK
External Environment
Foundations Management Processes Organisation
Shell General Business Principles
Controls and 
Assurance
Standards 
and Manuals
Statement on 
Risk Management
Code of Conduct
Strategy, Planning 
and Appraisal
Board of Royal Dutch Shell plc, 
Chief Executive Officer and Executive Committee
Businesses and Functions Legal Entities
The system of risk management and internal control over financial
reporting is an integral part of the control framework. Regular reviews
are performed to identify the significant risks to financial reporting and
the key controls designed to address them. These controls are
documented, responsibility is assigned, and they are monitored for
design and operating effectiveness. Controls found not to be effective
are remediated.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks to the achievement of
Shell’s objectives. This has been in place throughout the year and up
to the date of this Report and is regularly reviewed by the Board and
accords with the Internal Control: Guidance to Directors (formerly
known as the Turnbull Guidance).
Shell has a variety of processes for obtaining assurance on the
adequacy of risk management and i nternal control. The Executive
Committee and the Audit Committee regularly consider group-level risks
and associated control mechanisms. The Board has conducted its
annual review of the effectiveness of Shell’s system of risk management
and internal control, including fina ncial, operational and compliance
controls.
Pension plans
Shell has a number of ways to address key pension risks. Principal
among these is the Pensions Forum, a joint finance and human
resources body chaired by the CFO, which provides guidance on
Shell’s input to pension strategy, policy and operation. The Forum is
supported by the Pensions Risk Committee in reviewing the results of
assurance processes with respect to pension risks (see “Risk factors”).
In general, local trustees manage the funded defined benefit pension
plans and set the required contributions based on independent
actuarial valuations in accordance with local regulations rather than
the IFRS measures. For further information regarding the judgement
applied in setting the actuarial assumptions under IFRS and its
relationship to the financial position of Shell, see Notes 3 and 17 to
the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
Treasury a nd tradi ng
In the normal course of business, financial instruments of various kinds
are used for the purposes of managing exposure to interest rate,
currency and commodity price movements.
Treasury standards are applicable to all subsidiaries, and each
subsidiary is required to adopt a treasury policy consistent with these
standards. These policies cover: financing structure; interest rate and
foreign exchange risk management; insurance; counterparty risk
management; and use of derivative instruments. Wherever possible,
treasury operations are carried out through specialist regional
organisations without removing from each subsidiary the responsibility
to formulate and implement appropriate treasury policies.
Apart from forward foreign exchange contracts to meet known
commitments, the use of derivative financial instruments by most
subsidiaries is not permitted by their treasury policy.
Other than in exceptional cases, the use of external derivative
instruments is confined to specialist trading and central treasury
organisations that have appropriate skills, experience, supervision,
control and reporting systems.
Shell’s operations expose it to market, credit and liquidity risk, as
described in Note 19 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
Management’s evaluatio n of disclosure co ntrols a nd
procedures o f Shell
As indicated in the certifications in Exhibits 12.1 and 12.2 of this
Report, Shell’s CEO and CFO have evaluated the effectiveness of
Shell’s disclosure controls and procedures as at December 31, 2014.
On the basis of that evaluation, these officers have concluded that
Shell’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

GOVERNANCE 71
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Management’s report o n internal control over financial
reporti ngo f Shell
M a n a g e m e n t ,i n c l u d i n gt h eC E Oa n dC F O ,i sr e s p o n s i b l ef o r
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over Shell’s
financial reporting and the production of the “Consolidated Financial
Statements”. It conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of Shell’s
internal control over financial reporting and the production of the
“Consolidated Financial Statements” based on the Internal Control –
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. On the basis of this
evaluation, management conclu ded that, as at December 31, 2014,
the Company’s internal control over Shell’s financial reporting and the
production of the “Consolidated Financial Statements” was effective.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the independent registered public
accounting firm that audited the financial statements, has issued an
attestation report on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting, as stated in their report on page 105.
The Trustee’s a nd management’s evaluatio n of
disclosure co ntrols a nd procedures for the Royal Dutch
Shell Divide nd Access Trust
T h eT r u s t e eo ft h eR o y a lD u t c hS h e l lD ividend Access Trust (the Trustee)
and Shell’s CEO and CFO have evaluated the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures in respect of the Dividend Access
Trust (the Trust) as at December 31, 2014. On the basis of this
evaluation, these officers have concluded that the disclosure controls
and procedures of the Trust are effective.
The Trustee’s a nd management’s report o n internal
control over financial reporti ngo f the Royal Dutch Shell
Divide nd Access Trust
The Trustee is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over the Trust’s financial reporting. The Trustee and the
Company’s management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting based on the Internal Control
– Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. On the basis of this
evaluation, the Trustee and management concluded that, as at
December 31, 2014, the Trust’s inte rnal control over financial
reporting was effective.
PricewaterhouseCoopers CI LLP, the independent registered public
accounting firm that audited the financial statements, has issued an
attestation report on the Trustee’s and management’s internal control
over financial reporting, as stated in its report on page 173.
Changes i n internal control over financial reporti ng
There has not been any change in the internal control over financial
reporting of Shell or the Trust that occurred during the period covered
by this Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the internal control over financial reporting. Material
financial information of the Trust i s included in the “Consolidated
Financial Statements” and is there fore subject to the same disclosure
controls and procedures as Shell. See the “Royal Dutch Shell Dividend
Access Trust Financial Statements” for additional information.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The following summarises certain provisions of the Articles [A] and of
the applicable laws of England. This summary is qualified in its entirety
by reference to the Articles and the Act.
[A] Copies of the Articles have been previously filed with the SEC and are incorporated by
reference as exhibits to this Report. They can be found at www.shell.com.
Managementa nd Directors
The Articles provide that the Company’s Board of Directors must consist
of not less than three members nor more than 20 members at any time.
The Company has a single tier Board of Directors headed by a
Chairman, with management led by a CEO. See “Board structure and
composition” on page 66.
Under the Articles, at every AGM any Director who was in office at the
time of the two previous AGMs and who did not retire at either of them
must retire, and any such Director will be eligible to stand for
reappointment. Further, a Director who would not otherwise be
required to retire must retire if he or she has been in office, other than
as a Director holding an executive position, for a continuous period of
nine years or more at the date of the meeting, and any such Director
will be eligible to stand for reappointment. However, notwithstanding
the provisions of the Articles, the Company complies with the Code
that requires all Directors to stand for annual reappointment by
shareholders. At the AGM, shareholders can pass an ordinary
resolution to reappoint each of the Directors or to appoint another
eligible person in his or her place.
Under the Articles:
/H18546a Director may not vote or be counted in the quorum in respect of
any matter in which he or she is materially interested including any
matter related to his or her own compensation;
/H18546the Directors may exercise the Company’s power to borrow money
provided that the borrowings of Shell shall not, without the consent
of an ordinary resolution of the Company’s shareholders, exceed
two times the Company’s adjusted capital and reserves (these
p o w e r sr e l a t i n gt ob o r r o w i n gm a yo n l yb ev a r i e db ys p e c i a l
r e s o l u t i o no fs h a r e h o l d e r s ) ;a n d
/H18546Directors are not required to hol d shares of the Company to qualify
as a Director.
Rights attachi ngt os h a r e s
DIVIDEND RIGHTS AND RIGHTS TO SHARE IN THE COMPANY’S PROFIT
Under the applicable laws of England, dividends are payable on
A and B shares only out of profits available for distribution, as
determined in accordance with the Act and under IFRS.
Subject to the Act, if the Directors consider that the Company’s
financial position justifies the payment of a dividend, the Company
can pay an interim dividend. Shareholders can declare dividends by
passing an ordinary resolution although such dividends cannot exceed
the amount recommended by the Board.
It is the intention that dividends will be announced and paid quarterly.
Dividends are payable to persons registered as shareholders on the
record date relating to the relevant dividend. All dividends will be
divided and paid in proportions based on the amounts paid up on the
Company’s shares during any period for which that dividend is paid.
Any dividend or other money payable in cash relating to a share can
be paid by sending a cheque, warrant or similar financial instrument
payable to the shareholder entitled to the dividend by post to the
shareholder’s registered address. Alternatively, it can be made
payable to someone else named in a written instruction from the
shareholder (or all joint shareholders) and sent by post to the address
specified in that instruction. A dividend can also be paid by inter-bank
transfer or by other electronic means (including payment through
CREST) directly to an account with a bank or other financial institution
(or other organisation operating deposit accounts if allowed by the
Company) named in a written instruction from the person entitled to
receive the payment under the Articles. Such an account must be held
at an institution based in the UK unless the share on which the payment

72 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
is to be made is held by Euroclear Nederland and is subject to the
Dutch Securities Giro Act (“Wet giraal effectenverkeer”). Alternatively,
a dividend can be paid in some other way if requested in writing by a
shareholder (or all joint sharehol ders) and agreed to by the Company.
The Company will not be responsible for a payment which is lost or
delayed.
Where any dividends or other amounts payable on a share have not
been claimed, the Directors can invest them or use them in any other
way for the Company’s benefit until they are claimed. The Company
will not be a trustee of the money and will not be liable to pay interest
on it. If a dividend or other money has not been claimed for 12 years
after being announced or becoming due for payment, it will be
forfeited and go back to the Company, unless the Directors decide
otherwise.
The Company expects that dividends on B shares will be paid under the
dividend access mechanism described below. The Articles provide that if
any amount is paid by the issuer of the dividend access share by way of
dividend on the dividend access share and paid by the Trustee to any
holder of B shares, the dividend that the Company would otherwise pay
to such holder of B shares will be reduced by an amount equal to the
amount paid to such holder of B shares by the Trustee.
DIVIDEND ACCESS MECHANISM FOR B SHARES
General
A and B shares are identical, except for the dividend access
mechanism, which will only apply to B shares. Dividends paid on
A shares have a Dutch source for tax purposes and are subject to
Dutch withholding tax.
It is the expectation and the intention, although there can be no
certainty, that holders of B shares will receive dividends through the
dividend access mechanism. Any dividends paid on the dividend
access share will have a UK source for UK and Dutch tax purposes.
There will be no Dutch withholding tax on such dividends and certain
holders (not including US holders of B shares or B American Depositary
Shares (ADSs)) will be entitled to a UK tax credit in respect of their
proportional shares of such dividends. For further details regarding the
tax treatment of dividends paid o n the A and B shares and ADSs, refer
to “Taxation” on pages 184-185.
Description of dividend access mechanism
A dividend access share has been issued by The Shell Transport and
Trading Company Limited (Shell Transport) to Computershare Trustees
(Jersey) Limited as Trustee. Pursuant to a declaration of trust, the Trustee
will hold any dividends paid in respect of the dividend access share
on trust for the holders of B shares and will arrange for prompt
disbursement of such dividends to h olders of B shares. Interest and
other income earned on unclaimed dividends will be for the account of
Shell Transport and any dividends which are unclaimed after 12 years
will revert to Shell Transport. Holders of B shares will not have any
interest in the dividend access share and will not have any rights
against Shell Transport as issuer of t he dividend access share. The only
assets held on trust for the benefit of the holders of B shares will be
dividends paid to the Trustee in respect of the dividend access share.
The declaration and payment of dividends on the dividend access
share will require board action by S hell Transport and will be subject
to any applicable limitations in law or in the Shell Transport articles of
association in effect. In no event will the aggregate amount of the
dividend paid by Shell Transport under the dividend access mechanism
for a particular period exceed the aggregate of the dividend
announced by the Board of the Company on B shares in respect of the
same period.
Operation of the dividend access mechanism
If, in connection with the announcement of a dividend by the Company
on B shares, the Board of Shell Transport elects to declare and pay a
dividend on the dividend access share to the Trustee, the holders of
B shares will be beneficially entitled to receive their share of that
dividend pursuant to the declaration of trust (and arrangements will be
made to ensure that the dividend is paid in the same currency in which
they would have received a dividend from the Company).
If any amount is paid by Shell Transport by way of a dividend on the
dividend access share and paid by the Trustee to any holder of
B shares, the dividend which the Company would otherwise pay on
B shares will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to
such holders of B shares by the Trustee.
The Company will have a full and unconditional obligation, in the
event that the Trustee does not pay an amount to holders of B shares
on a cash dividend payment date ( even if that amount has been paid
to the Trustee), to pay immediately the dividend announced on
B shares. The right of holders of B shares to receive distributions from
the Trustee will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount of any
payment actually made by the Company on account of any dividend
on B shares.
If for any reason no dividend is paid on the dividend access share,
holders of B shares will only receive dividends from the Company
directly. Any payment by the Company will be subject to Dutch
withholding tax (unless an exemption is obtained under Dutch law or
under the provisions of an applicable tax treaty).
The dividend access mechanism has been approved by the
Dutch Revenue Service pursuant to an agreement
(“vaststellingsovereenkomst”) with the Company and N.V. Koninklijke
Nederlandsche Petroleum Maatschappij (Royal Dutch Petroleum
Company) dated October 26, 2004, as supplemented and amended
by an agreement between the same parties dated April 25, 2005.
The agreement states, among other things, that dividend distributions
on the dividend access share by Shell Transport will not be subject to
Dutch dividend withholding tax provided that the dividend access
mechanism is structured and operated substantially as set out above.
The Company may not extend the dividend access mechanism to any
future issuances of B shares without the approval of the Dutch Revenue
Service.
Accordingly, the Company would not expect to issue additional
B shares unless that approval were obtained or the Company were to
determine that the continued operation of the dividend access
mechanism was unnecessary. Any fur ther issue of B shares is subject to
advance consultation with the Dutch Revenue Service.
The dividend access mechanism may be suspended or terminated at
any time by the Company’s Directors or the Directors of Shell
Transport, for any reason and without financial recompense. This
might, for instance, occur in res ponse to changes in relevant tax
legislation.

GOVERNANCE 73
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The daily operations of the Trust are administered on behalf of Shell by
the Trustee. Material financial information of the Trust is included in the
“Consolidated Financial Statements” and is therefore subject to the
same disclosure controls and procedures as Shell.
DISPUTES BETWEEN A SHAREHOLDER OR AMERICAN DEPOSITARY SHARE
HOLDER AND ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC, ANY SUBSIDIARY, DIRECTOR OR
PROFESSIONAL SERVICE PROVIDER
The Articles generally require that, except as noted below, all disputes:
(i) between a shareholder in such capacity and the Company and/or
its Directors, arising out of or in connection with the Articles or
otherwise; (ii) so far as permitted by law, between the Company and
any of its Directors in their capacities as such or as the Company’s
employees, including all claims made by the Company or on its behalf
against Directors; (iii) between a s hareholder in such capacity and the
Company’s professional service providers (which could include the
Company’s auditors, legal counsel, bankers and ADS depositaries);
and (iv) between the Company and its professional service providers
arising in connection with any claim within the scope of (iii) above,
shall be exclusively and finally resolved by arbitration in The Hague,
the Netherlands, under the Rules of Arbitration of the International
Chamber of Commerce (ICC), as amended from time to time. This
would include all disputes arising under UK, Dutch or US law
(including securities laws), or under any other law, between parties
covered by the arbitration provision. Accordingly, the ability of
shareholders to obtain monetary or other relief, including in respect of
securities law claims, may be determined in accordance with these
provisions, and the ability of shareholders to obtain monetary or other
relief may therefore be limited and their cost of seeking and obtaining
recoveries in a dispute may be higher than otherwise would be the
case.
The tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators to be appointed in
accordance with the ICC rules. The chairman of the tribunal must have
at least 20 years’ experience as a lawyer qualified to practise in a
common law jurisdiction which is within the Commonwealth (as
constituted on May 12, 2005) and each other arbitrator must have at
least 20 years’ experience as a qualified lawyer.
Pursuant to the exclusive jurisdiction provision in the Articles, if a court
or other competent authority in any jurisdiction determines that the
arbitration requirement described above is invalid or unenforceable in
relation to any particular dispute in that jurisdiction, then that dispute
may only be brought in the courts of England and Wales, as is the
case with any derivative claim brought under the Act. The governing
law of the Articles is the substantive law of England.
Disputes relating to the Company’s failure or alleged failure to pay all
or part of a dividend which has been announced and which has fallen
due for payment will not be subject to the arbitration and exclusive
jurisdiction provisions of the Articles. Any derivative claim brought
under the Act will not be subject to the arbitration provisions of the
Articles.
Pursuant to the relevant Depositary agreement, each holder of ADSs is
bound by the arbitration and exclusive jurisdiction provisions of the
Articles as described in this section as if that holder were a
shareholder.
VOTING RIGHTS AND GENERAL MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS
Shareholders’ meetings
Under the applicable laws of England, the Company is required in
each year to hold an AGM of shareholders in addition to any other
meeting of shareholders that may be held. Each AGM must be held in
the period six months from the date following the Company’s
accounting reference date. Additionally, shareholders may submit
resolutions in accordance with Section 338 of the Act.
Directors have the power to convene a general meeting of
shareholders at any time. In addition, Directors must convene a
meeting upon the request of shareholders holding not less than 5% of
the Company’s paid-up capital carrying voting rights at general
meetings of shareholders pursuant to Section 303 of the Act. A request
for a general meeting of shareholders must state the general nature of
the business to be dealt with at the meeting, and must be authenticated
by the requesting shareholders. If Directors fail to call such a meeting
within 21 days from receipt of the request, the shareholders that
requested the general meeting, or an y of them representing more than
half of the total voting rights of all shareholders that requested the
meeting, may themselves conve ne a meeting which must be called
within three months. Any such meeting must be convened in the same
manner, as nearly as possible, as that in which meetings are required
to be convened by the Directors.
The Company is required to give at least 21 clear days’ notice of any
AGM or any other general meeting of the Company.
The Articles require that in addition to any requirements under the
legislation, the notice for any general meeting must state where the
meeting is to be held (the principal meeting place) and the location of
any satellite meeting place, which shall be identified as such in the
notice. At the same time that notice is given for any general meeting,
an announcement of the date, time and place of that meeting will, if
practical, be published in a national newspaper in the Netherlands.
The rules of the UKLA, Euronext Amsterdam and the NYSE require the
Company to inform holders of its securities of the holding of meetings
which they are entitled to attend.
A shareholder is entitled to appoint a proxy (who is not required to be
another shareholder) to represent and vote on behalf of the shareholder
at any general meeting of shareholders, including the AGM, if a duly
c o m p l e t e df o r mo fp r o x yh a sb e e nr e c e i v e db yt h eC o m p a n yn o tl e s s
than 48 hours before the meeting.
Business may not be transacted at any general meeting, including the
AGM, unless a quorum is present. A quorum is two people who are
entitled to vote at that general meeting. They can be shareholders who
are personally present or proxies for shareholders entitled to vote at
that general meeting or a combination of both.
If a quorum is not present within five minutes of the time fixed for a
general meeting to start or within any longer period not exceeding one
hour which the chairman of the meeting can decide, and if the meeting
was called by shareholders, it will be cancelled. Any other meeting
will be adjourned to a day (being not less than 10 days later,
excluding the day on which it is adjourned and the day for which it is
reconvened), time and place decided upon by the chairman of the
meeting. One shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled
to vote will constitute a quorum at any adjourned general meeting.
Record dates
Entitlement to attend and vote at the AGM is determined by reference
to the Company’s Register of Members. In order to attend and vote at
the AGM, a member must be entered on the Register of Members or
the register of the Royal Dutch Shell Corporate Nominee no later than
the record date. The record date will not be more than 48 hours
before the meeting, not taking account of any part of a day that is not
a working day.
Voting rights
A and B shares have identical voting rights and vote together as a
single class on all matters including the election of directors unless a
matter affects the rights of one class as a separate class. If a resolution
affects the rights attached to either class of shares as a separate class,
it must be approved either in writing by shareholders holding at least
three-quarters of the issued shares of that class by amount, excluding

74 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
any shares of that class held as treasury shares, or by special
resolution passed at a separate meeting of the registered holders of the
relevant class of shares.
It is the intention that all voting at general meetings will be by way of a
poll. A poll is voting by means of a ballot where the number of shares
held by each voting shareholder is counted, as opposed to voting by
way of a show of hands where the actual number of shares held by
voting shareholders is not taken into account. Under the Act, if a poll is
demanded, the resolution conducted on a poll must be approved by
holders of at least a majority of the votes cast at the meeting. Special
resolutions require the affirmative vote of at least three-quarters of the
votes cast at the meeting to be approved.
On a poll, every holder of A or B shares present in person or by proxy
has one vote for every share he or she holds. This is subject to any
rights or restrictions which are given to any class of shares in
accordance with the Articles. No shareholder is entitled to vote if he or
she has been served with a restriction order after failure to provide the
Company with information concerning interests in his or her shares
required to be provided under Section 793 of the Act.
Major shareholders have no differing voting rights.
Rights in a winding up
If the Company is voluntarily wound up, the liquidator can distribute to
shareholders any assets remaining after the liquidator’s fees and
expenses have been paid and all sums due to prior ranking creditors
(as defined under the laws of England) have been paid. Under the
Articles, the holders of the sterling deferred shares would be entitled
(such entitlement ranking in priority to the rights of holders of ordinary
shares) to receive an amount equal to the aggregate of the capital
paid up or credited as paid up on each sterling deferred share but
would not be entitled to participate further in the profits or assets of the
Company. Any assets remaining after the entitlements of the holders of
sterling deferred shares are satisfied would be distributed to the
holders of A and B shares pro rata according to their shareholdings.
Redemption provisions
Ordinary shares are not subjec t to any redemption provisions.
Sinking fund provisions
Ordinary shares are not subject to any sinking fund provision under the
Articles or as a matter of the laws of England.
Liability to further calls
No holder of the Company’s ordinary shares is currently liable to make
additional contributions of capital in respect of the Company’s
ordinary shares.
Discriminating provisions
There are no provisions discriminating against a shareholder because
of his or her ownership of a particular number of shares.
Variation of rights
The Act provides that the Articles can be amended by a special
resolution of the Company’s shareholders.
The Articles provide that, if permitted by legislation, the rights attached
to any class of shares can be changed if this is approved either in
writing by shareholders holding at least three-quarters of the issued
shares of that class by amount (excluding any shares of that class held
as treasury shares) or by a special resolution passed at a separate
meeting of the holders of the relevant class of shares. At each such
separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles relating to
proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that: (i) a quorum will
be present if at least one shareholder who is entitled to vote is present
in person or by proxy who owns at least one-third in amount of the
issued shares of the class; (ii) any shareholder who is present in person
or by proxy and entitled to vote can demand a poll; and (iii) at an
adjourned meeting, one person entitled to vote and who holds shares
of the class, or his or her proxy, will be a quorum. These provisions are
not more restrictive than required by law in England.
Limitations on rights to own shares
There are no limitations imposed by the Articles or the applicable laws
of England on the rights to own shares, including the right of non-
residents or foreign persons to hold or vote the Company’s shares,
other than limitations that would generally apply to all shareholders.
CHANGE OF CONTROL
There are no provisions in the Articles or of corporate legislation in
England that would delay, defer or prevent a change of control.
THRESHOLD FOR DISCLOSU RE OF SHARE OWNERSHIP
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK’s Financial Conduct
Authority impose an obligation on persons [A] to notify the Company
of the percentage of voting rights held as a shareholder, or through the
direct or indirect holding of financial instruments, if the percentage of
voting rights held in the Company reaches, exceeds or falls below 3%
or any 1% threshold above 3%.
[A] For this purpose “persons” includes com panies, natural persons, legal persons and
partnerships.
Section 793 of the Act governs the Company’s right to investigate who
has an interest in its shares. Under that section, a public company can
serve a notice on any person it knows or has reasonable cause to
believe is, or was at any time in the preceding three years, interested
in its shares in order to obtain certain information about that interest.
The Articles provide that in any statutory notice under the relevant
legislation, the Company will ask for details of those who have an
interest and the extent of their interest in a particular holding. The
Articles also provide that when a person receives a statutory notice, he
has 14 days to comply with it. If he does not do so or if he makes a
statement in response to the notice which is false or inadequate in
some important way, the Company may, on notice, restrict the rights
relating to the identified shares. The restriction notice will state that the
identified shares no longer give the shareholder any right to attend or
vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders’ meeting or to
exercise any right in relation to shareholders’ meetings. Where the
identified shares make up 0.25% or more (in amount or in number) of
the existing shares of a class at the date of delivery of the restriction
notice, the restriction notice can also contain the following further
restrictions: (i) Directors can withhold any dividend or part of a
dividend or other money otherwise payable in respect of the identified
shares without any liability to pay interest when such money is finally
paid to the shareholder; and (ii) Directors can refuse to register a
transfer of any of the identified shares which are certificated shares
unless Directors are satisfied that they have been sold outright to an
independent third party. Once a restriction notice has been given,
Directors are free to cancel it or exclude any shares from it at any time
they think fit. In addition, they must cancel the restriction notice within
seven days of being satisfied that all information requested in the
statutory notice has been given. Also, where any of the identified
shares are sold and Directors are satisfied that they were sold outright
to an independent third party, they must cancel the restriction notice
within seven days of receipt of notification of the sale. The Articles do
not restrict in any way the provision of the legislation which applies to
failures to comply with notices under the legislation.

GOVERNANCE 75
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers (the Takeover Code)
imposes disclosure obligations on parties subject to the Takeover
Code’s disclosure regime. The Takeover Code requires that an
opening position disclosure be made after the commencement of an
offer period and, if later, after the announcement that first identifies an
offeror. An opening position disclosure must be made by any person
that is interested in 1% or more of any class of relevant securities of any
party to the offer. The Takeover Code also requires any person who is,
or becomes, interested in 1% or more of any class of relevant securities
of an offeree company or any securities exchange offeror to make a
dealing disclosure if the person deal s in any relevant securities of the
offeree company or any securities exchange offeror during an offer
period. Where two or more persons act together pursuant to an
agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal, to acquire or
control an interest in relevant securities, they will normally be deemed
to be a single person for the purpose of the relevant provisions of the
Takeover Code.
Rule 13d-1 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires that a
person or group acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 5% of
equity securities registered under the US Securities Exchange Act
discloses such information to the SEC within 10 days after the
acquisition.
CAPITAL CHANGES
The conditions imposed by the Articles for changes in capital are not
more stringent than those required by the applicable laws of England.
FURTHER INFORMATION
The following information can be found at www.shell.com/investor:
/H18546the terms of reference of the Audit Committee, Corporate and Social
Responsibility Committee, Nomination and Succession Committee
and Remuneration Committee (these documents explain the
Committees’ roles and the authority the Board delegates to them);
/H18546the full list of matters reserved to the Board for decision;
/H18546Shell General Business Principles;
/H18546Shell Code of Conduct;
/H18546Code of Ethics for Executive Directors and Senior Financial Officers;
and
/H18546Articles of Association.
Signed on behalf of the Board
/s/ Michiel Brandjes
Michiel Brandjes
Company Secretary
March 11, 2015

76 GOVERNANCE
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to present our annual Audit Committee report, which I
trust will provide you with some useful insights into our work and the
issues we considered during the year. In September we welcomed
Euleen Goh as the fourth member of our Committee. As the Audit
Committee we assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities
in areas such as the integrity of financial reporting, the effectiveness of
the risk management and internal control system and related
governance and compliance matters. We are also responsible for
making a recommendation to the Board on the appointment or re-
appointment of the external auditor.
During 2014, we held six Committee meetings where we were briefed
on and discussed a variety of topics. We also arranged for an
additional session where we reviewed the Downstream price/margin
assumptions that formed the basis for the impairment charges following
management’s own review of the refining assets. The Committee also
paid specific attention to the impairment charges relating to Shell’s
North American tight-gas and liquids-rich shale properties. We
requested and reviewed the outcomes of Shell’s post-investment
reviews for certain major projects, acquisitions and disposals.
In addition to our usual disclosures on how we have discharged our
responsibilities during the year, we explain in the report those issues
we considered to be significant in relation to Shell’s 2014
Consolidated Financial Statements, and how we addressed them. We
have advised the Board that the 2014 Annual Report including the
financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and
understandable, and provides the information necessary for
shareholders to assess Shell’s performance, business model and
strategy. We also explain how we arrived at this conclusion.
As indicated in last year’s report, the Company has started a tender
process for the appointment of its external auditor. We expect to
complete the process in mid-2015, with the intention that the successful
firm be recommended for appoint ment at the 2016 Annual General
Meeting (AGM) in respect of the au dit for the 2016 financial year.
This will follow new European and UK rules affecting the mandatory
tendering of statutory audit services. To assist the Committee in
overseeing the selection process and making a recommendation to the
Board with respect to the appointment of the external auditor for
2016, a tender advisory committee has been established, which I am
chairing, to monitor the process and participate in engagements with
potential candidates.
The Committee paid close attention to the succession and transition
process for certain key staff during the year and also received a
presentation on succession planning for Shell’s other key financial
positions.
Finally, we conducted our annual performance evaluation and
concluded that the Committee was effective and able to fulfil its role in
accordance with its terms of reference, which can be found at
www.shell.com/investor.
Guy Elliott
Chairman of the Audit Committee
March 10, 2015
COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The current members of the Audit Committee are Guy Elliott (Chairman
of the Committee), Gerard Kleisterlee, Linda G. Stuntz and, as of
September 1, 2014, Euleen Goh, all of w hom are financia lly literate,
independent, Non-executive Directors. For the purposes of the Code,
Guy Elliott qualifies as a person with “recent and relevant financial
experience” and for the purposes of US securities laws is an “audit
committee financial expert”. The Committee met six times during the
year; the Committee members’ attendances are shown on page 67.
RESPONSIBILITIES
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to assist the Board in
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to: financial reporting;
the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control;
compliance with applicable external legal and regulatory
requirements; monitoring the qualifications, expertise, resources and
independence of both the internal and external auditors; and assessing
each year the auditors’ performance and effectiveness. The Committee
keeps the Board informed of the Committee’s activities and
recommendations. Where the Committee is not satisfied with, or
wherever it considers action or improvement is required concerning
any aspect of financial reporting, risk management and internal
control, compliance or audit-related activities, it promptly reports these
concerns to the Board.
ACTIVITIES
The Committee in its meetings covers a variety of topics. These include
both standing items that the Committee considers as a matter of course,
typically in relation to the quarterly results announcements, control
issues, accounting policies and judgements and reporting matters, as
well as a range of specific topics relevant to the overall control
framework of the Company. The Committee invites the Chief Executive
Officer, the Chief Financial Office r, the Legal Director, the Chief
Internal Auditor, the Executive Vice President Controller, the Vice
President Accounting and Reporting and the external auditor to attend
each meeting. Other members of management attend as and when
requested. At every meeting the Committee holds private sessions
separately with the external auditor and the Chief Internal Auditor
without members of management being present.
During 2014, the Committee received comprehensive reports from
management and the internal and external auditors. In particular, it
discussed with the Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Vice President
Controller, the Vice President Accounting and Reporting and the
external auditor issues that arose on accounting policies, practices and
reporting, and reviewed aggregated whistle-blowing reports, internal
audit reports and analyses of financial reporting matters. The
Committee further assessed the robustness of information and risk
management and security measures, including cyber security, and
discussed the annual report of the Chief Ethics and Compliance
Officer. The Committee also discussed the Company’s Annual Report
and Accounts, half-year report and quarterly unaudited financial
statements with management and the external auditor, and it reviewed
the Internal Audit Department’s annual audit plan and the performance
assessment of the Internal Audit function. The Committee also requested
reports on such matters that it deemed appropriate, for example,
governance of operated and non-operated ventures and regulatory, IT
and dealing risks associated with trading activities.
As requested by the Board, the Committee has advised the Board of its
view that the Annual Report including the financial statements for the
year ended December 31, 2014, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced
and understandable and provides the information necessary for
shareholders to assess Shell’s performance, business model and
strategy (see the “Directors’ Report” on page 63). To arrive at this
conclusion the Committee critically assessed drafts of the Annual Report
including the financial statements and discussed with management the
process undertaken to ensure that it was fair, balanced and

GOVERNANCE 77
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
understandable. This process included: requesting confirmation from
the owners of each section of the Annual Report that the content of their
respective section is fair and balanced; ensuring that consistent
materiality thresholds are applied; taking into account comments from
the external auditor; and receiving affirmation from the Executive
Committee. The Committee further reviewed and considered the
Directors’ half-year and full-year statements with respect to the going
concern basis of accounting.
SYSTEM OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL
CONTROL
In 2014, the Committee reviewed and discussed regular reports on
risks, controls and assurance, including the annual assessment of the
system of risk management and inter nal control, in order to monitor the
effectiveness of the procedures for internal control over financial
reporting. This included the Company’s evaluation of the internal
control system as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act.
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES
The Committee assessed the following significant accounting and
reporting issues that arose in re lation to Shell’s 2014 Consolidated
Financial Statements. The Committee was satisfied with how each of
these issues was resolved. As part of this assessment the Committee
received reports, requested and received clarification from
management, and sought assurance and received input from the
external auditor.
Impairments
The Committee considered management’s review of Downstream
refining assets and critically assessed the appropriateness of the
impairment charges in the first quarter in respect of assets in Asia and
Europe, including the write-off of the carrying amount of the Bukom
refinery in Singapore, and of the impairment charges in the second
quarter in Upstream which were mainly related to tight-gas properties
in the USA. The Committee focused on the trigger for impairment
testing and the assumptions used in determining the charges. See
Notes 3 and 8 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
Following the significant fall in oil and gas prices in the second half of
2014, the Committee reviewed further po tential short-term impairment
risks at the year end. It supported management’s conclusion that no
further impairments were required for the 2014 Consolidated Financial
Statements. This will remain an area of focus for the Committee for
2015.
Disposals
The Committee examined the accounting for assets subject to a
binding sales agreement and consequential disposals, including
Upstream assets in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Nigeria, and the USA
and Downstream assets in Australia and Italy. Special attention was
given to the accounting for any retained obligations, the assumptions
used in determining any resulting charges, and the tax treatment.
Acquisitio n of Repsol LNG busi nesses
The Committee reviewed the accounting for the acquisition of Repsol’s
LNG businesses outside North America. Areas of judgement which the
Committee considered and queried included fair valuations,
recognition of goodwill, related tax issues and required provisions.
S e eN o t e2 9t ot h e“ C o n s o l i d a t e dF i n a n c i a lS t a t e m e n t s ” .
Change in shareholdi ngi n Woodside
The Committee reviewed the accounting impact of the reduction in
Shell’s shareholding in Woodside Petroleum Limited (Woodside). The
Committee accepted that Shell continued to have significant influence
over Woodside and should continue to account for the interest as an
associate.
Discou nt rates for retire mentb enefit obligatio ns
The Committee was briefed on the impact of the significant decline in
discount rates on the assumptions used in the measurement of Shell’s
retirement benefit obligations at the year end and the consequential
increase in the net liability during 2014. Assurance on this was
provided by our external actuaries. See Notes 3 and 17 to the
“Consolidated Financial Statements”.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR
During 2014, the Committee evaluated the effectiveness of the external
auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), and the external audit
process, taking into account the results of Shell management’s internal
survey relating to the external auditor’s performance as well as
management’s review and recommendations and its own experiences
with the external auditor. Key criteria of the evaluation included:
professionalism in areas including competence, integrity and
objectivity; efficiency, covering aspects such as service level and cost
efficiency; thought leadership and value added; and compliance with
relevant legislative, regulatory and professional requirements. PwC
appointed a new lead partner in 2014 as his predecessor had
completed five years in the role.
Following due consideration, the Committee recommended to the
Board that PwC be reappointed for the year ended December 31,
2014. There were no contractual ob ligations that restricted the
Committee’s ability to make such a recommendation.
As required under UK and US auditing standards, the Committee
received a letter from the external auditor confirming its independence.
The last competitive audit tender was in 2005 when PwC was
appointed as auditor of the Company. Following the Company’s
decision in 2013 to start the tender pr ocess for the appointment of the
external auditor, a market asse ssment was carried out in 2014 to
identify suitable, appropriately experienced candidates to participate
in the tender. A request for those selected to submit their proposal was
sent out towards the end of the year. The tender advisory committee,
chaired by the Chairman of the Audit Committee, monitors, provides
advice and reports to the Audit Committee in respect of the tender
process, and has engagements with the potential external auditor
candidates. The Audit Committee expects to be in a position to make a
recommendation to the Board to enable the Board to decide in mid-
2015 which firm it will propose to be appointed as the external
auditor at the 2016 AGM in respect of the 2016 financial year.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES
The Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of the
external auditor to supply non-audit services. This policy, designed to
safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, includes guidelines
on permitted and non-permitted services, and on services requiring
specific approval by the Committee.
Examples of non-permitted services are actuarial services, bookkeeping
services, valuation services (unless the services are unrelated to
financial reporting), management or recruitment services, legal services
and expert services unrelated to the audit, tax advice and broker or
dealer, investment adviser or banking services.

78 GOVERNANCE
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
CONTINUED
For other services, because of their knowledge, experience and/or for
reasons of confidentiality, it can be more efficient or prudent to engage
the external auditor rather than another party. Under the policy,
permitted services must not present a conflict of interest. The Committee
reviews quarterly reports from management on the extent of the
permitted non-audit services provided in accordance with the policy or
for which specific approval is being sought. Non-audit services in the
following categories can be contracted without further individual prior
approval provided the fee value for each contract does not exceed
$500,000:
/H18546tax compliance work that is part of assurance process for the audit
of the Consolidated or Parent Company Financial Statements or the
accounts of subsidiaries;
/H18546regulatory compliance audits; and
/H18546verification of non-financial data for public disclosure.
Any other non-audit services must be specifically approved by the Audit
Committee before the external auditor is contracted.
The scope of the permitted non-audit services contracted with the
external auditor in 2014 consisted m ainly of tax compliance work and
the associated compensation amounted to 2% of total auditor’s
remuneration.
FEES
Note 28 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” provides the detail
of the auditor’s remuneration.

GOVERNANCE 79
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
REPORT
Principles
The principles underpinning the Remuneration Committee’s (REMCO)
approach to executive remuneration remain unchanged. They serve as
the foundation for everything we do, and are listed below.
/H18546Alignment with Shell’s strategy: the Executive Directors’
compensation package should be strongly linked to the achievement
of stretch targets that are seen as indicators of the execution of
Shell’s strategy.
/H18546Pay for performance: the majority of Executive Directors’
compensation (excluding benefits and pension) should be linked
directly to Shell’s performance through variable pay instruments.
/H18546Competitiveness: remuneration levels should be determined by
reference to companies of comparable size, complexity and global
scope.
/H18546Long-term creation of shareholder value: Executive Directors should
align their interests with those of shareholders by holding shares in
Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Company).
/H18546Consistency: the remuneration structure for Executive Directors should
generally be consistent with that fo r the Senior Management of Shell.
This consistency builds a culture of alignment with Shell’s purpose
and a common approach to sharing in Shell’s success.
/H18546Compliance: decisions should be made in the context of the Shell
General Business Principles and REMCO should ensure compliance
with applicable laws and corporate governance requirements when
designing and implementing policies and plans.
/H18546Risk assessment: the re muneration structure s and rewards should
meet risk-assessment tests to ensu re that shareholder interests are
safeguarded and that inappropriate actions are avoided.
STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Dear Shareholders,
As the new REMCO Chairman, I am pleased to present Shell’s 2014
Directors’ Remuneration Report. I outline below our performance and
remuneration determinations, all of which have been made in the
context of REMCO’s long-held remuneration principles, noted above,
which I endorse.
PERFORMANCE
2014 saw successful delivery of our fi nancial, operational excellence
and sustainable development agendas. Cash flow from operations
was ahead of target at $45 billion. There was strong operational
performance across our businesses. Major projects came on-line as
planned, with four new deep-water start-ups contributing to our cash
flow. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) sales and refinery and chemical
plant availability were ahead of target. Our safety record continued to
improve, with total recordable case frequency reduced to below one
injury per million working hours. REMCO was therefore pleased to
approve an annual bonus scorecard outcome of 1.45.
Shell has improved its competitive position in the oil and gas industry
with strong relative three-year performance in production and cash
flow, and median earnings per share (EPS) performance. The three-
year total shareholder return (TSR) was disappointing. As a result, the
2012 Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) award vested below target at
84% (or 42% of the maximum) and the Chief Executive Officer’s (CEO)
2012 Performance Share Plan (PSP) a ward (which was granted to him
prior to being appointed a Director) vested at 97% (or 49% of the
maximum).
DECISIONS MADE
As disclosed in the 2013 Annu al Report on Remuneration:
/H18546The base salary and pensionable salary for our CEO, Ben van
Beurden, who succeeded Peter Voser with effect from January 1,
2014, was set at €1,400,000.
/H18546Peter Voser stood down from the Board with effect from
December 31, 2013. The key elements of his remuneration until his
departure from Shell on March 31, 2014, acting as adviser to Ben
van Beurden to ensure a stable transition, were also disclosed in the
2013 report.
/H18546For LTIP awards from 2014 onward s, the relative hydrocarbon
production growth performance measure has been replaced by
relative return on average capital employed (ROACE) growth,
putting greater focus on capital efficiency.
/H18546The shareholding requirement as a percentage of base salary has
been increased: CEO 700% from 300%; Chief Financial Officer
(CFO) 400% from 200%.
We received shareholder approv al for new share plans at the 2014
Annual General Meeting (AGM). The key changes are:
/H18546share plan simplification:
/H18546fixed mandatory deferral of 50% of bonus into shares;
/H18546removal of matching shares in t he Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP),
replacing the value of this in the LTIP; and
/H18546pro-rating of outstanding LTIP awards for leavers from annual to
monthly service calculations.
The Executive Directors’ annual bonuses reward the achievement of
internal key performance indicators (KPIs) described in “Performance
indicators”. The LTIP measures, linked to the strategy outlined in
“Strategy and outlook”, are cash and earnings generation and capital
discipline as well as the value created for shareholders. The LTIP
rewards outperformance relative to our peers.
REMCO has tied Executive Directors’ compensation closely to long-
term performance. Further long-term alignment with shareholders is
achieved through high shareholding guidelines, an additional two-year
retention period after vesting of the LTIP and compulsory deferral of
50% of the annual bonus into shares to be retained for three years.
Incentives are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
THIS REPORT
This Directors’ Remuneration Rep ort for 2014 has been prepared in
accordance with relevant UK corporate governance and legal
requirements, in particular Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized
Companies and Groups (Accounts an d Reports) Regulations 2008 (as
amended). The Board has approved this report.
This report consists of two further sections:
/H18546the Annual Report on Remuneratio n, describing 2014 remuneration
as well as implementation of the policy in 2015, which will be
subject to an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM; and
/H18546the Directors’ Remuneration Policy which was approved by
shareholders at the 2014 AGM and is included for reference.

80 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
We held meetings with a number of shareholders in November and
December 2014 during which we sha red updates on remuneration
developments in 2014 and the approved changes for 2015.
IMPACT OF BEN VAN BEURDEN’S PRIOR ASSIGNMENT IN THE UK AND
PROMOTION ON SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION
As a long-serving, internationally mobile employee, and member of our
Dutch defined benefit pension plan, Ben van Beurden’s promotion to
CEO and prior assignment in the UK resulted in a significant increase
in pension accrual and related tax equalisation. His benefits were
managed consistently with those of other employees in a workforce
built on promotion from within and international mobility, reflecting the
long-term and global nature of Shell’s business. The CEO did not
benefit from any special treatment. If he had been employed in the
Netherlands during his previous assignment, there would have been no
Dutch tax liability on pension accrual in respect of that assignment.
The pension accrual reflects Ben van Beurden’s salary increase on
promotion, at a time when he participated in a final salary pension
plan, along with other Shell employees in the Netherlands who joined
before July 2013. As disclosed in las t year’s report, Ben van Beurden’s
UK assignment prior to his board appointment resulted in a UK tax
liability in respect of his pension benefits. For UK tax purposes, the
increase in his pension benefit is assessed over the UK tax year (to
April 5, 2014) and therefore reflects the impact of his salary increase
on promotion. Shell has paid the UK tax on the pension accrual in
accordance with the tax equalisation policy applicable to all
expatriate employees.
CHANGES FOR 2015
/H18546There are important changes to our Dutch pension arrangements with
effect from January 1, 2015: from 2015, and consistent with the
treatment for other employees hi red before July 2013, the maximum
pensionable salary for the CEO will be €89,900. A net pay savings
arrangement has been introduced (employer contribution: 24% of
salary in excess of €89,900 for the CEO) with the option to take as
cash as an alternative to pension contributions (in either case subject
to income tax).
/H18546We are making some changes to our sustainable development
measures in the annual bonus scorecard, with the addition of Tier 1
Process Safety events and increased weight of operational spills
volumes, as explained on page 83. Effective process safety
management is fundamental to preventing significant safety and
environmental incidents and REMCO now wishes to see this
reflected in Executive Director remuneration.
/H18546As announced on October 30, 2014, Charles O. Holliday will
become Chairman with effect from the conclusion of 2015 AGM,
subject to his reappointment as a Director at the AGM. His annual
fees following his appointment have been set at €850,000.
As always, I welcome your feedback and look forward to meeting you
at our AGM on May 19, 2015.
Gerard Kleisterlee
Chairman of REMCO
March 11, 2015

GOVERNANCE 81
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON
REMUNERATION
The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out:
/H18546REMCO and its responsibilities and activities;
/H18546a summary of our policy in place in 2014, our approved policy,
effective January 1, 2015, and p lanned implementation in 2015;
/H18546the statement of implementatio n of the approved policy in 2015;
and
/H18546Directors’ remuneration for 2014.
The base currency in this Annual Report on Remuneration is the euro,
as this is the currency of the base salary and country of employment of
the Executive Directors. Where amounts are shown in other currencies,
an average exchange rate for the relevant year is used, unless a
specific date is stated, in which case the average exchange rate for
the specific date is used.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The following Directors were members of REMCO during 2014:
/H18546Gerard Kleisterlee (Chairman of REMCO with effect from May 21,
2014);
/H18546Hans Wijers (Chairman of REMCO until he stood down on May 20,
2014);
/H18546Josef Ackermann (stood down on May 20, 2014);
/H18546Charles O. Holliday; and
/H18546Gerrit Zalm (with effect from May 21, 2014).
Their biographies are given on pages 58-60; REMCO meeting
attendance is given on page 67.
REMCO’s key responsibilities in respect of Executive Directors include:
/H18546setting remuneration policy;
/H18546agreeing performance frameworks, setting targets and reviewing
performance;
/H18546determining actual remuneration and benefits; and
/H18546determining contractual terms.
In addition, REMCO has the responsibility for the Chairman of the
Board’s remuneration and for recommending and monitoring the level
and structure of remuneration for Senior Management.
REMCO operates within its terms of reference, which are reviewed
regularly and updated whenever necessary. They were last updated on
January 28, 2015 and are available a t www.shell.com. Alternatively,
copies can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Advice from within Shell on various subjects including the Executive
Directors’ Scorecard and the remuneration of Senior Management was
provided by:
/H18546Ben van Beurden, CEO;
/H18546Hugh Mitchell, Chief Human Resources & Corporate Officer and
S e c r e t a r yt oR E M C O ;a n d
/H18546Stephanie Boyde, Executive Vice President Remuneration, Benefits &
Services.
The Chairman of the Board and the CEO were consulted on
remuneration proposals affecting the CFO.
During 2014, REMCO met four times and its activities included:
/H18546approving the 2013 Director s’ Remuneration Report;
/H18546approving the 2014 share plan rules;
/H18546consulting with major shareholders in April, November and
December;
/H18546setting annual bonus performance measures and targets;
/H18546deciding on base salaries for the CEO and the CFO;
/H18546determining the 2013 annual bonus outcomes;
/H18546vesting of the 2011 LTIP, DBP and PSP awards;
/H18546reviewing malus and clawback provisions;
/H18546reviewing pension arrangements as a result of regulatory changes in
the Netherlands;
/H18546reviewing the implication of the length of service of Simon Henry in
the Netherlands (now treated as a normal Dutch tax resident; tax
equalisation of pension);
/H18546reviewing the Chairman’s fees (Charles O. Holliday not being
present during this discussion);
/H18546tracking external developments and assessing their impact on Shell’s
remuneration policy; and
/H18546reviewing REMCO’s operation.

82 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
REMUNERATION STRUCTURE
Short term Medium term Longt e rm
/H18546Base salary.
/H18546Annual bonus based on scorecard of short-term
strategic targets and individual achievement.
/H1854650% of bonus deferred into shares for three
years.
/H18546LTIP based on relative performance over three
years. Shares to be retained for two years after
vesting.
/H18546Shareholding requirement for tenure in role.
/H18546Bonus and LTIP subject to malus and
clawback provisions.
REMUNERATION POLICY AND PRACTICE AT A GLANCE
Policy that applied in 2014 Su mmary of the shareholder-approved policy (effective
January 1, 2015). Full policy set out pages 91-98
Implementation of the shareholder-approved policy in
2015
Base salary andp ensionable salary
/H18546CEO base salary and pensionable
salary: €1,400,000.
/H18546CFO base salary: €1,010,000 (+2.5%);
pensionable salary: £750,000 (+4.2%).
/H18546Reviewed annually after considering a range of
factors including market positioning, tenure and
experience, planned increase for other
employees, Shell’s and individual performance.
Maximum: €2,000,000.
/H18546CEO base salary and pensionable salary:
€1,430,000 (+2.1%).
/H18546CFO base salary: €1,030,000 (+2.0%);
pensionable salary: £765,000 (+2.0%).
Benefits
Single total figure table impacted by:
/H18546UK tax liability that arose in respect of the CEO’s
pension accruals during his assignment in the
UK.
/H18546Tax liability that arose in respect of foreign
pension contributions as a result of the CFO’s
length of service in the Netherlands.
/H18546Typically include car allowance, transport to
and from home and office, medical insurance.
/H18546Mobility policies and tax equalisation related to
expatriate employment before Board
appointment, or to offset double taxation, may
also apply.
/H18546CEO and CFO will receive standard benefits.
Annual bonus andD B P
/H18546Target bonus as a % of base salary:
CEO 150%; CFO 120%.
/H18546Maximum: CEO 250%; CFO 240%.
/H18546Scorecard measures: operational cash flow
(30%); operational excellence (50%); and
sustainable development (20%).
/H18546Bonus paid in respect of 2014: CEO 236% of
base salary, CFO 188% of base salary. 50%
mandatory deferral.
/H18546Subject to malus and clawback provisions.
/H18546Target bonus as a % of base salary:
CEO 150%; CFO 120%.
/H18546Maximum: CEO 250%; CFO 240%.
/H18546Calculated as base salary x target bonus % x
scorecard result (0–2) against short-term strategic
targets, adjusted for individual performance with
a 0–1.2 multiplier.
/H1854650% delivered in cash, 50% deferred into
shares and released after three years, together
with dividend shares accrued over the deferral
period.
/H18546Subject to malus and clawback provisions.
/H18546Same bonus opportunity as in 2014. Some
changes to the sustainable development
measure (addition of Tier 1 Process Safety
events and increased weight of operational
spills volume).
/H18546Mandatory deferral of 50% of bonus.
/H18546No longer receive matching shares on
deferred bonus.
/H18546Subject to malus and clawback provisions.
LTIP
/H18546Award as a % of base salary: CEO 300%; CFO
240%.
/H18546Performance measures: TSR (30%), EPS (30%),
ROACE (20%) and net cash from operating
activities (20%).
/H18546Holding period of two years post vesting.
/H18546Vesting of 2012 award: 84% (42% of
maximum). Vesting of 2012 PSP award: 97%
(49% of maximum).
/H18546Maximum award: 400% of base salary.
Between 0% and 200% of the initial award may
vest depending on relative performance over a
three-year period.
/H18546Vesting capped at 50% of the maximum payout
if there is no vesting on the TSR element.
/H18546Additional shares are released representing the
value of dividends payable on vested shares.
/H18546Vested shares must be held for a further two
years.
/H18546Subject to malus and clawback provisions.
/H18546Executive Directors no longer receive
matching shares on deferred bonuses and the
value has been moved to the LTIP.
/H18546Therefore awards increased to 340% of base
salary for the CEO and 270% of base salary
for the CFO.
/H18546Same performance measures as in 2014.
/H18546Holding period of two years post vesting.
Pension
/H18546CEO: Dutch defined benefit pension plan.
Significant increase in accrual as a result of his
promotion.
/H18546CFO: UK defined benefit plans.
/H18546Retirement benefits maintained in base country
pension arrangements.
/H18546Pensionable base salaries reviewed annually.
/H18546CEO: pension changed from final salary to
capped salary (maximum pensionable salary
for future defined benefit accruals of
€89,900). A net pay savings arrangement
has been introduced (employer contribution:
24% of salary in excess of €89,900).
/H18546CFO: No change.
Shareholdingr e q u i r ement
/H18546CEO: 300% of base salary; CFO: 200% of
base salary. Actual holding at year end: CEO
37% of base salary; CFO 831% of base salary.
/H18546CEO: 700% of base salary; CFO: 400% of
base salary.
/H18546Expected to be reached through retention of
vested shares, within five years of appointment
and maintained for the full period of
appointment.
/H18546Shareholding requirement increased to:
CEO: 700% of base salary; CFO: 400% of
base salary.

GOVERNANCE 83
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
STATEMENT OF 2015 POLICY IMPLEMENTATION
Comparator group
The 2015 key benchmarking compa rator group is unchanged from
2014 and consists of BP, Chevron, E xxonMobil and Total (“the other
oil majors”) as well as a selection of major Europe-based companies.
2015 EUROPEAN COMPARATOR GROUP
Allianz BHP Billito n Rio Tinto
Anglo American Deutsche BankR o c h e
AstraZeneca Diageo SABMiller
Barclays GlaxoS mithKlineS i e mens
Bayer HSBC U nilever
BAT Novartis Voda fone
BG Group Philips
Salaries
Effective from January 1, 2015, base salaries were set at
€1,430,000 (+2.1%) for Ben v an Beurden, CEO and €1,030,000
(+2.0%) for Simon Henry, CFO.
Pensionable base salaries were set at €1,430,000 (+2.1%) for Ben
van Beurden and £765,000 (+2.0%) for Simon Henry.
Annual bo nus
The 2015 performance measure s are aligned with our KPIs and
comprise:
/H18546operational cash flow (30%);
/H18546operational excellence (50%), consisting of: project delivery,
upstream production, liquefied natural gas (LNG) sales, refinery and
chemical plant availability; and
/H18546sustainable development (20%). In 2014, 10% of the annual bonus
scorecard was based on total recordable case frequency (TRCF).
This will be changed for 2015 to 5% TRCF and 5% Tier 1 Process
Safety events (defined as an unpl anned release of any material,
including non-toxic and non-flammable materials from a process,
resulting in harm to members of the company workforce or a
neighbouring community, damage to equipment or exceeding a
threshold). A further 10% is based on internal measures (spills,
energy intensity and use of fresh water) with changes for 2015 to
increase the weighting of spill volumes and removal of spill numbers,
which are covered in the ne w process safety measure.
Annual bonus scorecard targets are not disclosed prospectively
because to do so in a meaningful manner would require the disclosure
of commercially sensitive information. As we did for 2013 and 2014,
we intend to disclose scorecard targets in a future Directors’
Remuneration Report when they are no longer deemed to be
commercially sensitive. Retrospective disclosure of detailed personal
targets is inappropriate as these are deemed commercially sensitive.
Long-term incentive awards
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
On January 30, 2015, a conditional a ward of performance shares
under the LTIP was made to the Executive Directors. The award had a
face value of 340% of base sala ry for the CEO and 270% of base
salary for the CFO, resulting in the following shares being awarded
conditionally: 180,575 Royal Dutch Shell plc A shares (A shares) to
Ben van Beurden, and 99,451 Roya lD u t c hS h e l lp l cBs h a r e s( B
shares) to Simon Henry.
For LTIP awards made in 2015, consis tent with 2014, performance is
assessed over a three-year period based on relative performance
compared with the other oil majors on the following measures and
vested shares are subject to a two-year holding period post vesting:
/H18546TSR, calculated in US dollars using a 90-day averaging period
around the start and end of the performance period (30%);
/H18546diluted EPS growth on a current cost of supplies basis (30%);
/H18546net cash growth from operating activities (20%); and
/H18546return on average capital employed (ROACE) growth (20%). For this
purpose, in order to facilitate the comparison, the calculation of
ROACE differs from that described in “Performance indicators” as
there is no adjustment for after-tax interest expense.
DEFERRED BONUS PLAN
50% of the annual bonus awarded will be deferred into shares to be
retained for three years.
Malus a nd clawback
Bonus, DBP and LTIP are subject to malus (withholding) and clawback
(recovery) provisions and may apply in case of direct responsibility or
supervisory accountability.
Malus applies if Shell restates the relevant year(s’) financial statements
due to material non-compliance with any financial reporting
requirement; as a result of misconduct or misconduct by an individual,
through the individual’s direction or non-direction, which influenced the
metrics and outcomes used in determining the individual’s annual
bonus or LTIP outcome; any material breach of health and safety or
environment regulations; serious reputational damage to Shell; material
failure of risk management; or other exceptional events at the discretion
of REMCO.
Malus also applies after employment ends if the individual:
(a) breaches any provision of his/her employment contract which
applies after cessation of employment or any provision of an
agreement entered into on termination of employment; (b) is found to
have committed fraud or dishonesty with respect to Shell; (c) wilfully
damaged the assets of or engaged in misconduct which, in any
material respect, is or was injurious to Shell; (d) wrongfully disclosed or
used any proprietary or confidential information which is related to the
business, properties or affairs of Shell and the release of which is
detrimental, in any material respect, to the competitive position or
goodwill of Shell; (e) engaged in any activity which, in any material
respect, reasonably constituted a conflict with the interests of Shell; or
( f )b r e a c h e da n yb u s i n e s sp r i n c i p l eo rat e r mo fa n yc o d eo fc o n d u c t
applicable to employees or former employees of Shell.
Clawback applies in case of restatement of financial statements due to
material non-compliance with any financial reporting requirement or as
a result of the individual’s misconduct or misconduct through the
individual’s direction or non-direction, which influenced the metrics and
outcomes used in determining his/her annual bonus or LTIP outcome.
Pension
There are important changes to our Netherlands pension arrangements
with effect from January 1, 2015. Co nsistent with the treatment for
other employees, Ben van Beurden’s maximum pensionable salary will
be €89,900. Past service benefits will be fixed in value based on
pensionable salary and service as at December 31, 2014. A net pay
savings arrangement has been introduced (with employer contributions
which are age-dependent and for 2015 are 24% of salary in excess
of €89,900 for Ben van Beurden) with the option to take cash as an
alternative to pension contributions (in either case subject to income
tax). The estimated annual figure that will be reported in the 2015
report is €440,000.

84 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
Non-executive Directors’ fees
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ FEES 2015
€ Other fees
Chairman of the Board [A] 850,000 Non-executive
Directors receive
an additional fee
of €5,000 for any
Board meeting
involving
intercontinental
travel – except
for one meeting
a year held in a
location other than
The Hague.
Non-executive Director 130,000
Senior IndependentD i r e c t o r 55,000
Audit Committee
Chairman [B] 55,000
Member 25,000
Corporate andS o c i a lR e s p onsibility
Committee
Chairman [B] 35,000
Member 17,250
Nomination and Succession Committee
Chairman [B] 25,000
Member 12,000
Remuneration Committee
Chairman [B] 35,000
Member 17,250
[A] With effect from the conclusion of the 2015 AGM. Current fee €825,000.
[B] The chairman of a committee does not receive an additional fee for membership of that
committee.
The Chairman’s fee is determined by REMCO and the annual fee for
the new Chairman, with effect from May 20, 2015, subject to his
reappointment as a Director at the 2015 AGM, has been set at
€850,000 (Charles O.Holliday did not attend this discussion).
A Non-executive Director receives a basic fee, and there is an
additional fee(s) for the Senior Independent Director and either a
Board committee chairmanship or Board committee membership for
each committee. Non-executive Directors receive an additional fee of
€5,000 for any Board meeting involving intercontinental travel, except
for one meeting a year held in a location other than The Hague.
Business expenses (including transport between home and office and
occasional business-required spouse travel) and associated tax are
paid or reimbursed by Shell. The Chairman is offered Shell-provided
accommodation in The Hague.
The Board reviews Non-executive Directors’ fees periodically to ensure
that they are aligned with those of other major listed companies. A
review was carried out in 2014, which resulted in an increase in the
basic fee from €125,000 to €130,000 and an increase in the Audit
Committee Chairman fee from €45,000 to €55,000, effective
January 1, 2015.
Annual fees for 2015 are indicated in the “Non-executive Directors’
fees 2015” table.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION FOR 2014
Non-executive Directors’ re muneratio nf or 2014
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (AUDITED) € THOUSAND
Fees Taxable be nefits[A] Total
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Josef Ackermann [B] 60 154 2 2 62 156
Guy Elliott 177 170 1 7 178 177
Euleen Goh [C] 60 – – – 60 –
Charles O. Holliday 207 207 15 19 222 226
Gerard Kleisterlee 171 150 – 2 171 152
JormaO l l i l a[ D ] 825 825 133 114 958 939
Sir Nigel Sheinwald 142 142 – 8 142 150
Linda G. Stuntz 180 180 – 19 180 199
Hans Wijers 206 227 – 4 206 231
Patricia A. Woertz [C] 93 – – – 93 –
Gerrit Zalm 153 142 – 4 153 146
[A] UK regulations require the inclusion of benefits where these would be t axable in the UK, on the assumption that Directors are tax resident in the UK. On this premise, the taxable benefits
amounts include the cost of Non-executive Directo r’s occasional business-required spouse travel. Shell also pays for travel between home and the he ad office in The Hague, where Board and
committee meetings are typically held, as well as related hotel and subsistenc e costs. For consistency, these business expenses are not reported as t axable benefits as for most Non-executive
Directors this is international travel a nd hence would not be taxable in the UK.
[B] Josef Ackermann stood down on May 20, 2014. No payments for loss of office were made.
[C] Euleen Goh was appointed with effect from September 1, 2014. Patricia A. Woertz was appointed with effect from June 1, 2014.
[D] The taxable benefits amounts for Jorma Ollila include company- provided transport (2014: €77,430) and the use of an apartment (2014: €47,963).

GOVERNANCE 85
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Executive Directors’ re muneratio nf or 2014
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (AUDITED) € THOUSAND
Ben van Beurden Simon Henry
2014 2014 2013
Salaries 1,400 1,010 985
Taxable benefits 35 32 52
Total fixed remuneration 1,435 1,042 1,037
Annual bonus [A] 3,300 1,900 900
LTIP, DBP andP S P[ B ] 863 2,857 1,986
Total variable remuneration 4,163 4,757 2,886
Total direct remuneration 5,598 5,799 3,923
Pension [C] 10,695 442 508
Tax equalisation [D] 7,905 244 –
Total remuneration including pension and tax equalisation 24,198 6,485 4,431
in dollars 32,158 8,619 5,887
in sterling 19,510 5,229 3,764
[A] The full value of the bonus, comprising both the non-deferred and deferred value. For 2014, 50% is deferred into the DBP. The market price of A and B sh ares on January 30, 2015 (€26.93
and £21.045 respectively), were used to determine the number of deferred bon us shares, resulting in 61,281 A shares for Ben van Beurden and 33,972 B sha res for Simon Henry.
[B] Remuneration for performance periods of more th an one year, comprising the value of released LTIP awards, DBP performance matching shares and rel eased PSP awards. The amounts
reported for 2014 relate to the 2012 awards, which vested on February 17, 2015, at the market price of €28.97 and £22.47 for A and B shares respectively. T he value in respect of the LTIP,
DBP and PSP is calculated as the product of: the gross number of shares of the o riginal award in the case of the LTIP and PSP, or performance matching share s in the case of the DBP, plus accrued
dividend shares; the vesting percentage; and the closing market price of A o r B shares at the vesting date. The market price of B shares is converted into euros using the exchange rate on the
respective date. The original deferred bonus share awards, which are thos e represented by the deferred bonus and dividend shares accrued on these sha res, are not considered as long-term
remuneration, as they relate to the short-term annu al bonus value. Only the performance matching shar es and dividend shares accrued on those shares a re considered as long-term remuneration,
since they relate to performance periods of more than one year.
[C] The accrual for the period (net of inflation) multipli ed by 20 in accordance with UK reporting regulations.
[D] For Ben van Beurden, this arose as a result of the impact of his promotion a nd is related to the increase in pension accrual. For Simon Henry, the amoun t is in respect of the length of time he
has been resident in the Netherlands and co ntributing to a foreign pension plan.
Notes to the si ngle total figure o f remuneratio nf or
Executive Directors table (audited)
SALARIES
As disclosed in the 2013 Directors’ Remuneration Report, REMCO set
Ben van Beurden’s base salary and pensionable salary for 2014 at
€1,400,000 and, effective fro m January 1, 2014, Simon Henry’s
base salary at €1,010,000 (+2.5%) and pensionable salary at
£750,000 (+4.2%).
TAXABLE BENEFITS
Executive Directors received car allowances or lease cars, transport to
and from home and office, occasional business-required spouse travel,
as well as employer contributions to life and medical insurance plans.
Where appropriate, tax equalisation and relocation support policies
were applied.
ANNUAL BONUS
The business scorecard contains independent business measures
grouped in three sections: operational cash flow, operational
excellence and sustainable development. At the start of the year,
REMCO sets a target range and weighting for each scorecard
measure. The actual outcome for e ach measure results in a score of
between zero and two, with a score of one representing “At target”.
These scores are multiplied by the respective weighting of each
measure and aggregated, resulting in a mathematical scorecard
outcome of between zero and two. REMCO may then make an
adjustment to the overall scorecard outcome in view of the wider
business performance for the year.
Individual performance
An Executive Director’s individual performance is also taken into
account in determining his annual bonus. Individual performance is
assessed against personal targets. Retrospective disclosure of detailed
personal targets is inappropriate as these are deemed to be
commercially sensitive.
Conclusion of the 2014 annual bonus
The mathematical scorecard outcome for 2014 was 1.45 and
REMCO approved this outcome, based on strong operational cash
flow of $45 billion and delivering a high proportion of flagship
projects on time and on budget. REMCO was particularly pleased to
see outstanding sustainable development results, including the
continuing decrease in total recordable case frequency, now below
one injury per million working hours. On this basis, the bonus would
have been €3,045,000 for the CE O and €1,757,000 for the CFO.
The CEO took early action on capital discipline, made successful
divestments, and followed up with a structure of performance unit
reviews that has helped to further focus the portfolio. REMCO
determined an individual performan ce factor of 1.08 against a range
of 0-1.2 for the CEO, leading to a final bonus outcome of
€3,300,000.
REMCO noted the CFO’s personal contribution in driving strong cash
flow performance, with a strengthened capital management process, a
solid balance sheet and finance an d IT cost containment across our
businesses, and determined an ind ividual performance factor of
1.08 against a range of 0-1.2 for the CFO, leading to a final bonus
outcome of €1,900,000.

86 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
CONTINUED
2014 ANNUAL BONUS OUTCOME (AUDITED)
Bonus as a % of base salary
Measures
Weight
(% of scorecard)
Target
set
Result
achieved Score (0-2)
Ben van Beurden Simon Henry
Target Achieved Target Achieved
Operational cash flow ($ billion) [A] 30% 43.0 45.1 1.34 45% 60% 36% 48%
Operational excellence 50% 1.40 75% 105% 60% 84%
Project delivery: identified projects on timea ndb u d g e t( % ) 20% 75% 83% 1.40
Production (kboe/d) 12% 3,079 3,080 1.02
LNG sales (mtpa) 6% 23.0 24.0 2.00
Refinery andc h emical plant availability (%) 12% 91.1 92.1 1.49
Sustainable development 20% 1.75 30% 53% 24% 42%
Total recordable case frequency (incidents/million hours) 10% 1.22 0.99 1.77
Targeted internal measures (score 0-2) [B] 10% 1.0 1.74 1.74
100% 150% 120%
Mathematical scorecard outcome 1.45
Final 2014 bonus [C] € (% of base salary) 3,300,000 (236%) 1,900,000 (188%)
[A] Excluding tax on divestments.
[B] Spills, energy intensity and use of fresh water.
[C] Annual bonus = (base salary x target bo nus % x scorecard result), adjusted for in dividual performance by a factor of 1.08.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
In 2012, Simon Henry was grant ed a conditional award of
performance shares under the LTI P. This award was based on 240% of
base salary, with a maximum ves ting of 480%. The terms of this 2012
LTIP award are the same as those applying to the 2014 LTIP awards,
other than hydrocarbon production growth being a relative
performance measure in the 2012 award, replaced by ROACE
growth in the 2014 award.
At the end of the performance period (January 1, 2012 to
December 31, 2014), Shell was ranked fourth among its peer group
in terms of TSR (30% weight), third in terms of diluted EPS growth on a
current cost of supplies basis (30% weight), second in terms of
hydrocarbon production growth (20% weight) and second in terms of
growth in net cash from operating activities (20% weight). REMCO
also considered the underlying financial performance of Shell and
decided to vest 84% of shares under the LTIP, without applying any
discretionary adjustment, resulting in 80,645 B shares for Simon
Henry. At vesting, these shares (including accrued dividend shares)
had a value of €2,450,131. The ves ted shares from the LTIP are
subject to a further two-year holding period.
DEFERRED BONUS PLAN
Simon Henry was granted performance matching shares under the
DBP. The performance period was January 1, 2012 to December 31,
2014. Given that the performance co ndition of the DBP is the same as
for the 2012 LTIP, REMCO decided to vest 84% of the performance
matching shares under the DBP, without applying any discretionary
adjustment, resulting in 13,405 B shares for Simon Henry. At vesting,
these shares (including accrued dividend shares) had a value of
€407,261.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN
Selected employees participate in the Performance Share Plan (PSP).
The operation of the PSP is similar to the LTIP, but differs, for example,
in some performance measures and their relative weightings. In 2012,
prior to his appointment to the Board, Ben van Beurden was granted a
conditional award under the PSP. At the end of the performance
period, which was from January 1, 2012,
to December 31, 2014, 97% vested, r esulting in 29,801 A shares for
Ben van Beurden. At vesting, these shares (including accrued dividend
shares) had a value of €863,186.
PENSION AND RELATED TAX EQUALISATION
The 2014 single total figure o f remuneration includes two
pension-related amounts:
/H18546Pension: UK regulations require the inclusion of a pension value,
which, for defined benefit pension plans, is the inflation-adjusted
difference between the pension benefit at the beginning and end of
the year multiplied by 20. As a result of Ben van Beurden’s
promotion to CEO, his pension benefit under the Dutch defined
benefit plan increased in value in 2014. The required UK
methodology overstates the pension value notably because of the
retirement age of 67.
/H18546Tax equalisation: as mentioned i n the 2013 report, as a result of his
promotion, a UK tax charge arose in respect of pension accruals
during Ben van Beurden’s assignment in the UK and this is settled by
Shell under its tax equalisation policy for expatriate staff. This is our
standard mobility policy and the CEO did not benefit from any
special treatment. Mobility is a key element of our remuneration
strategy as we need to be able to move executives and key talent
across regions. Internal promotion is an important part of our
resourcing strategy given the long -term nature and breadth of Shell’s
business.

GOVERNANCE 87
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS IN 2014 (AUDITED) €
Potential amountv e s t ing
Schemei nterest type
Type of
interest awarded
Endo f
performance
period Target award[A]
Minimum
performance
(% of shares
awarded)[B]
Maximum performance
(% of shares of the target award[A][C])
LTIP Performance
shares
December 31,
2016
Ben van Beurden: 163,998 A
shares, equivalent to 3 x base
salary or €4,200,000.
Simon Henry: 89,648 B shares,
equivalent to 2.4 x base salary or
€2,424,000.
0% Maximum number of shares vesting
is 200% of the number of shares
awarded, equivalent to
€8,400,000 for Ben van Beurden
and €4,848,000 for Simon Henry.
DBP Performance
matching
shares
December 31,
2016
25% of 2013 annual bonus[D],
which is €159,500 (6,228
A shares) for Ben van Beurden and
€225,000 (8,321 B shares) for
Simon Henry.
0% Maximum number of shares vesting
is 200% of the number of shares
awarded, equivalent to €319,000
for Ben van Beurden and
€450,000 for Simon Henry.
[A] Awards based on a market price at January 31, 2014 (close of th e award date), for A and B shares of €25.61 and £22.25 respectively.
[B] Minimum performance relates to the lowest leve l of achievement, for which no reward is given.
[C] The equivalent values exclude share pri ce movements and accrued dividend shares.
[D] Ben van Beurden (prior to being appointed a Director) and Simon Henry elected to defer 50% of their 2013 bonus into DBP shares, half of which is matcha ble with additional performance
matching shares. This results in performance matching shares with a value of 25% of their 2013 bonus.
To determine the appropriate award, REMCO considers the award
value to be a market competitive reward for medium- to long-term
outperformance of the business re lative to the other oil majors on
measures considered key indicators of the delivery of the strategy in the
medium to long term.
The measures and weightings applying to both LTIP and DBP awards
for 2014 are: TSR growth (30%); diluted EPS growth on a current cost
of supplies basis (30%); hydrocarbon production growth (20%); and
net cash growth from operating activities (20%).
VESTING
The LTIP and DBP performance matching shares vest on the basis of the
relative performance rankings as indicated in the table below.
RELATIVE PERFORMANCE RANKINGS
Shell’s ranka g a inst peers on each
of the four performance measures
Number of conditional performance shares
ultimately awarded, takingi nto accountt h e
weightings of the four performance measures
1st 2 x initial LTIP award
2 x half of the deferred bonus shares
2nd 1.5 x initial LTIP award
1.5 x half of the deferred bonus shares
3rd 0.8 x initial LTIP award
0.8 x half of the deferred bonus shares
4th or 5th Nil
If the TSR ranking is fourth or fifth, the level of the award that can vest on the
basis of the three other measures will be capped at 50% of the maximum.
REMCO retains discretion to adjust the calculated vesting outcome if it
believes that this is distorted by circumstances which are unrelated to
performance, for example, reporting changes, ranking clustering,
mathematical anomalies or corporate events in the comparator group.
REMCO will consider using discretion to ensure that remuneration
appropriately reflects Shell’s performance and may adjust the final
vesting outcome of the LTIP (and, therefore, DBP).
“At target” performance is equivalent to ranking positions which would, in
line with the vesting schedule and TSR underpin, lead to a total of 100%
vesting of the initial LTIP award and release of 100% of the DBP
performance matching shares. At maximum performance, 200% of the
number of LTIP and DBP performance matching shares awarded will vest.
To deliver the shares under the LTIP and DBP, market-purchased shares
are used rather than the issuing of new shares.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING AND
SHARE INTERESTS (AUDITED)
REMCO believes that Executive Directors should align their interests
with those of shareholders by holding shares in the Company. In a
business where it can take many years to reach a final investment
decision on a project, and many fur ther years of development before a
facility comes on-stream, long-term shareholding properly aligns
interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
Shareholdi ng guideli nes
Under the policy effective from January 1, 2015, the CEO is expected
to build a shareholding with a v alue of 700% of base salary, and
other Executive Directors 400% of base salary. Only unf ettered shares
count. The bonus deferred into shares under the DBP (net of tax) and
the vested LTIP (subject to holding requirements) count towards the
guidelines. Ben van Beurden has not yet met the required shareholding
level. Simon Henry has done so. There are no shareholding guidelines
for Non-executive Directors.
Directors’ share i nterests
The interests (in shares of the Company or calculated equivalents) of
the Directors in office during the year, including any interests of their
connected persons, are set out in the “Directors’ share interests” table
on the next page.
There were no changes in Directors’ share interests during the period
from December 31, 2014, to March 11, 2015, except in the case of
Ben van Beurden whose interests increased by 14,304 A shares and
Simon Henry whose interests increased by 62,586 B shares, resulting
from the release of the 2012 PSP award, and the 2012 LTIP and DBP
awards respectively, which vested on February 17, 2015, and Guy
Elliott whose interests increased by 100 B shares.

88 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
CONTINUED
As at March 11, 2015, the Directors and Senior Management
(pages 58-61) of the Company beneficially owned individually and in
aggregate (including shares under option) less than 1% of the total
shares of each class of the Company shares outstanding.
Directors’ sche mei nterests
The table below shows the aggregate position for Directors’ interests
under share schemes at December 31. For Ben van Beurden, these relate
to awards made to him prior to being appointed a Director. These are A
shares for Ben van Beurden and B shares for Simon Henry. During the
period from December 31, 2014, to March 11, 2015, scheme interests
have changed as a result of the vesting of the 2012 LTIP, DBP and PSP
awards on February 17, 2015, and the 2015 LTIP and DBP awards
made on January 30, 2015, as described on pages 86 and 83
respectively.
DIRECTORS’ SCHEME INTERESTS (AUDITED)
Share plan interests[A]
LTIP subject to
performance
conditions[ B ]
DBP not subject to
performance
conditions[C]
DBP subject to
performance
conditions[D]
PSP subject to
performance
conditions [E] Total
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Ben van Beurden 216,062 – 13,087 – 6,544 – 30,289 28,828 265,982 28,828
Simon Henry 288,957 283,222 80,734 95,366 40, 367 47,683 – – 410,058 426,271
[A] Includes unvested long-term incentive awards and notional dividend s hares accrued at December 31. Interests are shown on the basis of the origina l awards. The shares subject to performance
conditions can vest at between 0% and 200%. Dividend shares accumulate each year on an assumed notional LTIP/DBP award. Such dividend shares are discl osed and recorded on the basis of
the number of shares conditionally awarded but, when an award vests, dividend shares will be awarded only in relation to vested shares as if the vested s hares were held from the award date.
Shares released during the year are included in the “Directors’ share interests” table.
[B] Total number of unvested LTIP shares at December 31, incl uding dividend shares accrued on the original LTIP award.
[C] The number of shares deferred from the bonus (original DBP award) and th e dividend shares accrued on these at December 31, 2014. Delivery of the orig inal DBP award and the related
accrued dividend shares is not subject to performance conditions.
[D] The target number of performance matching shares, which correspond to t he original DBP award. In accordance with the operation of the DBP, half of t he shares from the bonus deferral are
matchable with performance matching shares. The ac tual number of performance matching shares will be determined at vesting on the same basis as the LT IP vesting.
[E] Total number of unvested PSP shares at December 31, in cluding dividend shares accrued on the original award.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING (AUDITED)
2014 shareholding
guideline( %o f base salary)[A]
Value of shares counting
towards guideline( %o f base
as at December 2014)[B]
Ben van Beurden 300% 37%
Simon Henry 200% 831%
[A] Increased in 2015 to 700% for Ben van Beurden and 400% for Simon Henry.
[B] Representing the value of Directors’ share inte rests and the estimated after-tax value of DBP
shares (not subject to performance conditions).
DIRECTORS’ SHARE INTERESTS [A] (AUDITED)
January 1, 2014 Dece mber 31, 2014
As h a r e s Bs h a r e s As h a r e s Bs h a r e s
Josef Ackermann 10,523 – 10,523[B] –
Ben van Beurden – – 12,289 –
Guy Elliott – 5,677 – 5,677
Euleen Goh –– – –
Simon Henry 9,175 231,471 9,175 245,644
Charles O. Holliday – 20,000[C] – 30,000[C]
Gerard Kleisterlee 5,000 – 5,000 –
JormaO l l i l a 25,000 – 25,000 –
Sir Nigel Sheinwald – 470 – 1,000
Linda G. Stuntz – 8,400[D] – 8,400[D]
Hans Wijers 5,251 – 5,251 –
Patricia A. Woertz – –[E] – 6,000[F]
Gerrit Zalm 2,026 – 2,026 –
[A] Includes vested LTIP awards subject to holdi ng conditions. Excludes unvested interests in
shares awarded under the LTIP, DBP and PSP.
[B] Interests at May 20, 2014, when he stood down as a Director.
[C] Held as 10,000 ADSs (RDS.B ADS) at January 1, 2014, and as 15,000 ADSs (RDS.B
ADS) at December 31, 2014. Each RDS.B ADS represents two B shares.
[D] Held as 4,200 ADSs (RDS.B ADS). Each RDS.B ADS represents two B shares.
[E] At the date of appointment.
[F] Held as 3,000 ADSs (RDS.B ADS). Each RDS.B ADS represents two B shares.
TSR PERFORMANCE AND CEO PAY
Performance graphs
The graphs below compare the TSR performance of the Company over
the past six financial years with that of the companies comprising the
Euronext 100 and the FTSE 100 share indices.
The Board regards the Euronext 100 and the FTSE 100 share indices
as appropriate broad market equity indices for comparison, as they
are the leading market indices in the Company’s home markets.
Dec-08
Value of hypothetical   100 holding
Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-14 Dec-13
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE (RDSA)
growth in the value of a hypothetical   100 holding over six years
Euronext 100 comparison based on 30 trading day average values
Euronext 100 RDSA
175
150
125
100
75
50
25
200
0

GOVERNANCE 89
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
£175
£150
£125
£100
£75
Value of hypothetical £100 holding
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE (RDSB)
growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over six years
FTSE 100 comparison based on 30 trading day average values
£50
£25
£200
£0
FTSE 100 RDSB
Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14
CEO pay outco mes
The following table sets out the single total figure of remuneration, and
the annual bonus payout and long-term incentive (LTI) vesting rates
compared with the respective maximum opportunity, for the CEO for
the last six years.
CEO PAY OUTCOMES
Year CEO
Single total
figure of
remuneration
(€000)
Annual
bonus
payout
against
maximum
opportunity
LTI vesting
rates
against
maximum
opportunity
2014 Ben van Beurden 24,198 94% 49%
2013 Peter Voser 8,456 44% 30%
2012 Peter Voser 18,246 83% 88%
2011 Peter Voser 9,941 90% 30%
2010 Peter Voser 10,611 100% 75%
2009 Peter Voser 6,228 50% 0%
2009 Jeroen van der Veer 3,748 66% 0%
Peter Voser stood down on December 31, 2013, and was succeeded
by Ben van Beurden. Jeroen van der Veer stood down on July 1,
2009, and Peter Voser took over from that date. Only remuneration
relating to their position as CEO is included for 2009.
CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF CEO AND
EMPLOYEES FROM 2013 TO 2014
Ben van Beurden became CEO on January 1, 2014. There is therefore
no relevant comparative data for him for 2013. As a reminder, for
2013, Peter Voser received a base salary of €1,640,000 and a
bonus of €1,800,000.
The CEO data compares the remuneration of Ben van Beurden for
2014 with that of Peter Voser for 2013 and excludes taxable benefits
as these depend on individual circumstances. The comparator group
consists of local employees in the Netherlands, the UK and the USA.
This is considered to be a suitable employee comparator group,
because:
/H18546these are countries with a significant Shell employee base;
/H18546a large proportion of senior managers come from these countries;
and
/H18546REMCO considers remuneration levels in these countries when
setting base salaries for Executive Directors.
Taxable benefits are those that align with the definition of taxable
benefits applying in the respective country. In line with the “Single total
figure of remuneration for Executive D irectors” table, the annual bonus
is included in the year in respect of which it was earned.
CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF CEO AND
EMPLOYEES
CEO[A] E mployees
Salaries -15% 4%
Taxable benefits N/A 10%[B]
Annual bonus 83% 120%
[A] Data for the CEO reflects data for Ben van Beurden in 2014 and Peter Voser in 2013.
[B] Mainly arising from an increase in US healthcare premiums.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
Distributions to shareholders by way of dividends and share buybacks
and remuneration paid to or receivable by employees for the last five
years are set out below, together with annual percentage changes.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
Dividends and share buybacks[A] Spe ndo n pay (all employees)[B]
Year $ billio n Annual change $ billio n Annual change
2014 14.6 -14% 16.4 0%
2013 17.1 35% 16.4 9%
2012 12.7 9% 15.1 3%
2011 11.6 14% 14.6 4%
2010 10.2 -3% 14.1 -4%
[A] Dividends paid, which includes the dividen ds settled in shares via our Scrip Dividend
Programme, and repurchases of shares as reported in the “Consolidated Statement of Changes
in Equity”.
[B] Employee expense as reported in Note 26 to th e “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
Spend on pay can be compared with the major costs associated with
generating income by referring to the “Consolidated Statement of
Income”. Over the last five years, the average spend on pay was 4%
of the major costs of generating income. These costs are considered to
be the sum of: purchases; production and manufacturing expenses;
selling, distribution and administrative expenses; research and
development; exploration; and depreciation, depletion and
amortisation.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
Peter Voser repatriated to his base country, Switzerland, on
December 31, 2013, and was employed by Shell Switzerland AG
until his departure from Shell on March 31, 2014. For this period, he
received a base salary of Swiss francs 635,000 and annual bonus (as
determined by REMCO) of €615,000 (Swiss francs 749,298).
On February 17, 2015, Peter Voser’s and Malcolm Brinded’s 2012
LTIP and DBP awards vested at 84%. The value at vesting of the LTIP
shares was €5,059,432 for Pet er Voser and €1,042,608 for
Malcolm Brinded, following prorating, and the value at vesting of the
performance matching DBP share s was €922,293 for Peter Voser and
€543,024 for Malcolm Brinded.
Jeroen van der Veer and Peter Voser exercised their remaining share
options in 2014.
Payments below €5,000 are not reported as they are considered de
minimis below this level.

90 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
CONTINUED
TOTAL PENSION ENTITLEMENTS (AUDITED)
During 2014, Ben van Beurden and Simon Henry accrued retirement
benefits under defined ben efit plans. The pension accrued under these
plans at December 31, 2014, is set out below.
ACCRUED PENSION (AUDITED) THOUSAND
Local € $
Ben van Beurden €1,160 €1,160 $1,411
Simon Henry £449 €575 $699
The age at which Ben van Beurden and Simon Henry can receive any
pension benefit without actuarial reduction is 67 and 60 respectively.
Any benefits on early retirement are reduced using actuarial factors to
reflect early payment. No paym ents were made in 2014 regarding
early retirement or in lieu of retirement benefits.
Ben van Beurde n
Ben van Beurden is a member of the “Stichting Shell Pensioen Fonds”,
the pension plan for Shell employees in the Netherlands who joined
before July 2013 that provides bene fits in defined benefit form.
Important changes to pension arrangements with effect from January 1,
2015 are explained on page 83. As a result of these changes, Ben
van Beurden has also joined the Shell net pension plan in the
Netherlands with effe ct from January 1, 2015.
Simon Henry
Simon Henry is a member of the Shell Overseas Contributory Pension
Fund (SOCPF) and the Shell Contributory Pension Fund (SCPF), with
both funded pension plans providing benefits in defined benefit form.
The SOCPF provides benefits in respect of his periods of employment
outside the UK, while the SCPF provides benefits in respect of his
periods of employment in the UK. Simon Henry has elected to have his
benefits from the SCPF restricted to the UK lifetime allowance with any
excess provided from an unfunded arrangement, the Shell
Supplementary Pension Plan.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
The Board considers external appointments to be valuable in
broadening Executive Directors’ knowledge and experience. The
number of outside directorships is generally limited to one. The Board
must explicitly approve such appointments. Executive Directors are
allowed to retain any cash or share-based compensation they receive
from such external board directorships.
Simon Henry was appointed a Non-executive Director of Lloyds
Banking Group plc with effect from June 2014. His fee in 2014 was
£53,750.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT 2014 AGM
The Company’s 2014 AGM was held on May 20, 2014, in the
Netherlands. The results of the polls in respect of Directors’
remuneration were as follows:
APPROVAL OF DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
Votes Nu mber Perce ntage
For 3,167,299,751 92.90%
Against 242,225,203 7.10%
Total cast 3,409,524,954[A] 100.00%
Withheld [B] 63,756,314
[A] Representing 53.47% of issued share capital.
[B] A vote “withheld” is not a vote under English law and is not counted in the calculation of
the proportion of the votes “fo r” and “against” a resolution.
APPROVAL OF DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Votes Nu mber Perce ntage
For 3,083,923,360 93.31%
Against 221,282,479 6.69%
Total cast 3,305,205,839[A] 100.00%
Withheld [B] 168,075,428
[A] Representing 51.84% of issued share capital.
[B] A vote “withheld” is not a vote under English law and is not counted in the calculation of
the proportion of the votes “fo r” and “against” a resolution.
Although there is no requirement to disclose the outcome of voting on
share plans, the LTIP was approved with 92.68% of votes in favour
and the DBP with 98.29% in favour. Full details of voting on share
plans is disclosed in the AGM section of our website: www.shell.com.
DILUTION
In any 10-year period, not more than 5% of the issued Ordinary share
capital of the Company may be issued or issuable under executive
(discretionary) share plans adopted by the Company. To date, no
shareholder dilution has resulted from these plans, although it is
permitted under the rules of the plans subject to these limits.
DIRECTORS’ CONTRACTS AND LETTERS OF
APPOINTMENT
Executive Directors have employment contracts for an indefinite period.
Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have an
employment contract but letters of appointment. Details of Executive
Directors’ employment contract s can be found in the Directors’
Remuneration Policy on page 97. Further details of Non-executive
Director terms of appointment can be found in the “Directors’ Report”
on page 63 and the “Corporate governance” report on page 66.
COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR
MANAGEMENT
During the year ended Decemb er 31, 2014, Shell paid and/or
accrued compensation totalling $71 million (2013: $58 million) to
Directors and Senior Management for services in all capacities while
serving as a Director or member of Senior Management, including $4
million (2013: $5 million) accrued t o provide pension, retirement and
similar benefits. The total includes costs incurred in respect of
additional employee levies in the Netherlands and termination and
related amounts. The amounts stated are those recognised in Shell’s
income on an IFRS basis. Personal loans or guarantees were not
provided to Directors or Senior Management. See Note 27 to the
“Consolidated Financial Statements”.

GOVERNANCE 91
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
POLICY
This section describes the Directors’ Remuneration Policy as published
in the 2013 Directors’ Remunera tion Report which, following
shareholder approval at the 2014 AG M, is effective from January 1,
2015, and will remain effective until the 2017 AGM, unless a further
policy is proposed by the Company and approved by shareholders in
the meantime.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE
ElementP u r p o s e a ndl ink to strategy Maxi mum opportunity Operatio n andp e rformance measurement
Base salary
and
pensionable
base salary
Rewards day-to-day
leadership and strategic
direction.
Competitively positioned
recognising the scope and
complexity of the role to
attract and retain Executive
Directors.
As it is required to
state a maximum base
s a l a r y ,w eh a v es e ta
maximum of
€2,000,000, for both
base salary and
pensionable base
salary, in the context
of current peer group
base salary levels.
Within this limit,
increases will be
assessed annually
based on suitable
competitive pay
positioning.
Base salary and pensionable base salary are reviewed annually with
salary adjustments effective from January 1 each year.
In making salary determinations, the Remuneration Committee (REMCO) will
consider:
/H18546the market positioning of the Executive Directors’ compensation packages;
/H18546the different tenure and experience each Executive Director has in their role;
/H18546changes in the scope and responsibility of the Executive Director’s role;
/H18546the planned average salary increase for other employees across three major
countries – the Netherlands, the UK and the USA;
/H18546the impact of salary increases on pension benefits and other elements of the
package; and
/H18546Shell’s performance and the Executive Directors’ individual performance.
Benefits Provides market-competitive
benefits in order to attract
and retain international
candidates for the
Executive Director roles,
enabling them to focus on
delivering performance.
The maximum
opportunity is the cost
to the Company of
providing the relevant
benefit as specified in
the relevant local or
global Company
policies. These costs
can vary.
Benefits that Executive Directors typically receive include car allowances
and transport to and from home and office, risk benefits (for example ill-
health, disability or death-in-service), as well as employer contributions to
insurance plans (such as medical). Precise benefits will depend on the
Executive Director’s specific circumstances such as nationality, country of
residence, length of service, and family status. Mobility policies for
relocation and children’s education may apply, as may tax equalisation
related to expatriate employment prior to Board appointment, or in other
limited circumstances to offset double taxation. REMCO may adjust the
range and scope of the benefits offere d in the context of developments in
relevant countries.
In relation to the maximum opportunity, and by way of example, maximum
relocation and tax equalisation settlement benefits will be the grossed-up
cost of meeting the specific Executive Director’s actual liability incurred as a
result of appointment and any associated relocation, and will depend on a
variety of factors such as length of service, salary increase on appointment
and the tax regime in place at the time.

92 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
CONTINUED
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE (CONTINUED)
ElementP u r p o s e a ndl ink to strategy Maxi mum opportunity Operatio n andp e rformance measurement
Annual bonus
andD eferred
Bonus Plan
(DBP)
Rewards performance
against a scorecard of
short-term strategic targets
and individual
achievement.
To reinforce alignment with
shareholder interests, 50%
is deferred and the other
50% is delivered in cash.
The deferred bonus is
released in the form of
shares after a deferral
period of three years, as
well as dividend shares
accrued over the deferral
period. Apart from
dividend shares, no
additional DBP shares are
awarded.
Target levels (as a
percentage of base
salary):
/H18546Chief Executive
Officer: 150%
/H18546Other Executive
Directors: 120%
Maximum bonus (as a
percentage of base
salary):
/H18546Chief Executive
Officer: 250%
/H18546Other Executive
Directors: 240%
/H18546The bonus is determined by reference to performance from January 1 to
December 31 each year.
/H18546Annual bonus = base salary x target bonus % x scorecard result (0–2);
adjusted for individual performance with a 0–1.2 multiplier.
/H18546Taking the Shell Business Plan into consideration, each year the Board
agrees the scorecard targets and weightings which support the delivery of
the strategy. Measures are related to financial performance, operational
excellence and sustainable development. Indicative weightings are 30%,
50% and 20% respectively. REMCO retains the ability to adjust
performance measure targets and weightings year by year within the overall
target and maximum payouts approved in the policy. Additionally,
stretching individual targets are set.
/H18546Scorecard targets will be disclosed retrospectively, with the timing of any
disclosure dependent on the commercial sensitivity of the target.
/H18546Individual performance is reflected by adjusting the bonus outcome.
Upward adjustment is capped at 20% and subject to the overall maximum
bonus cap. There is no limit to downward adjustment.
/H18546For the portion of the bonus deferred into shares, additional shares may be
released representing the value of dividends payable on the vested shares,
as if these had been owned from award date (“dividend shares”).
/H18546The annual bonus and DBP have malus and clawback provisions.
/H18546There are no prescribed thresholds or minimum levels of performance that
equate to a prescribed payment under the policy and this structure can result
in no bonus payment being made.
Long-term
Incentive Plan
(LTIP)
Rewards medium- to long-
term outperformance of the
business relative to other
oil majors on measures
which are selected
because they are seen as
key outcomes of the
delivery of the strategy.
Awards may be made
up to a value of 400%
of base salary.
Awards may vest at up
to 200% of the shares
originally awarded,
plus dividends.
/H18546Award levels are determined annually by REMCO and are set within the
maximum approved in the policy.
/H18546Awards may vest on the basis described in the notes below, between 0%
and 200% of the initial award level depending on Shell’s performance
against a comparator group.
/H18546Although it is possible for no LTIP shares to vest, on current measures and
weightings, 16% of the initial LTIP award would vest if there was a positive
vesting outcome in respect of the lowest-weighted measure.
/H18546Performance is assessed over a three-year period based on relative growth
of the following: total shareholder return (TSR)(30%), earnings per share
(EPS) on a current cost of supplies basis (30%), return on average capital
employed (ROACE)(20%) and net cash from operating activities (20%).
Each measure can vest independently, but if the TSR measure does not result
in vesting, then the total vesting level will be capped at 50% of the
maximum payout.
/H18546REMCO may adjust or change the LTIP measures, targets and weightings to
ensure continued alignment with Shell’s strategy.
/H18546Additional shares are released representing the value of dividends payable
on the vested shares, as if these had been owned from the award date.
/H18546Following payment of taxes, vested shares from LTIP awards must be held
for a further two years to align with the strategic focus.
/H18546LTIP shares are subject to malus and clawback.

GOVERNANCE 93
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE (CONTINUED)
ElementP u r p o s e a ndl ink to strategy Maxi mum opportunity Operatio n andp e rformance measurement
Pensions Provides a competitive
retirement provision in line
with the individual’s base
country benefits policy, to
attract and retain Executive
Directors.
Pensions provide a stable
income after Shell
employment, allowing
Executive Directors to focus
on delivering performance.
By reference to
pensionable base
salary, pension
accrual and
contribution rates and
other pensionable
elements, as
determined by the
rules of the base
country pension plan
of which the Executive
Director is a member.
Executive Directors’ retirement benefits are maintained in their base country
pension arrangements. Only base salary is pensionable, unless country
plan regulations specify otherwise. The rules of the relevant plans detail the
pension benefits which members can receive on retirement (including on ill-
health), death or leaving service. REMCO retains the right to amend the
form of any Executive Director’s pension arrangements in response to
changes in legislation, so as to ensure that the original objective of this
element of remuneration is preserved.
Pensionable base salaries are reviewed annually. For Executive Directors
employed outside of their base country, euro base salaries are translated
into their home currencies for pension plan purposes. Once their salaries
are denominated in base country currency, they are maintained in line with
euro base salary increases taking into account exchange rate fluctuations
and other factors as determined by REMCO.
Shareholding Aligns interests of Executive
Directors with those of
shareholders.
Shareholding (% of
base salary):
/H18546Chief Executive
Officer: 700%
/H18546Other Executive
Directors: 400%
Executive Directors are expected to build up their shareholding to the
required level over a period of five years from appointment and, once
reached, to maintain this level for the full period of their appointment. The
intention is for the shareholding guideline to be reached through retention
of vested shares from share plans. REMCO will monitor individual progress
and retains the ability to adjust the guideline in special circumstances on an
individual basis.
Notes to the Executive Directors’ re muneratio n policy
table
BENEFITS
Executive Directors are eligible to receive the standard benefits and
allowances provided to employees in their country of employment.
Personal loans or guarantees are not provided to Executive Directors.
Those working outside of their base country are also eligible to receive
specific benefits such as relocation s upport and school fees, consistent
with Shell’s mobility policies. Tax gross-up/tax equalisation may also
apply in limited circumstances to offset double taxation. Where the
Executive Director was on an international assignment prior to board
appointment, there may be payments on behalf of the Executive
Director in subsequent years in the form of tax equalisation settlements.
Post-retirement benefits may be applicable in certain countries.
Apart from the benefits described above, Executive Directors and
Senior Management have access to a chauffeured car, the provision of
home security, and occasional busine ss-required spouse travel, which
are generally considered legitimate business expenses rather than
components of remuneration. Where these would be taxable in the
UK, their values are included as taxable benefits in the single total
figure of remuneration table.
ANNUAL BONUS AND DEFERRED BONUS PLAN
REMCO uses the annual bonus to focus on short-term scorecard targets
that the Board agrees each year as part of Shell’s Business Plan, and
on individual performance against personal targets. Shell considers
upfront disclosure of these targets in a meaningful manner to be
commercially sensitive. The scorecard targets will be retrospectively
disclosed in a future Directors’ Remuneration Report, when no longer
deemed to be commercially sensitive.
A scorecard with financial performance, operational excellence and
sustainable development targets represents the link to business results.
For 2015, the scorecard measures will consist of cash flow (30%
weight), operational excellenc e (50% weight) and sustainable
development (20% weight). Annual targets and weightings for each
metric are set and approved by REMCO each year. The scorecard
targets are stretching but realistic.
2015 ANNUAL BONUS SCORECARD MEASURES FOR
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
30% weight 50% weight
Cash flow
Cash generated from operations that factors
in the impact of commodity price fluctuations
as well as business performance so that the
Executive Directors, like shareholders, share
t h ee f f e c t so fb o t h .
Operational excellence
/H18546Project delivery: indicator of Shell’s
ability to deliver projects on-stream, on
time, and on budget.
/H18546Upstream and Downstream indicators
of the full and effective use of resources
– both facilities and people.
20% weight
Sustainable development
Equally weighted indicators of safety and
environmental performance.
For years following 2015, the fra mework for the annual bonus
scorecard, including metrics and weightings, will be reviewed and
determined by REMCO and can be adjusted accordingly.
Performance is assessed over eac h calendar year. The outcome is
usually known early in the following year, and REMCO translates this
into a score of between zero and two. REMCO retains the right to
exercise its judgement to adjust the mathematical bonus scorecard
outcome to ensure that the final bonus scorecard outcome for Executive
Directors reflects other aspect so fS h e l l ’ sp e r f o r m a n c ew h i c h
REMCO deems appropriate for the reported year.
REMCO strengthens the Executive Directors’ individual accountability
by increasing or decreasing their annual bonuses to take account of
how well they have delivered against their individual performance
targets. These targets typically relate to qualitative differentiators not
already covered by the scorecard; for example, stakeholder
management, portfolio developmen t, organisational leadership and
brand value. A positive individual adjustment corresponds with
personal impact beyond expectations, and a negative adjustment
would mean expectations were not completely met. Upward
adjustment for individual performance is capped at a multiple of 1.2 of
the bonus, subject to the overall bonus maximum. There is no limit to
the downward adjustment.

94 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
CONTINUED
To reinforce alignment with shareholder interests, 50% of the annual
bonus is deferred into the DBP and the other 50% is delivered in cash.
The deferred bonus is released in the form of shares after a deferral
period of three years along with dividend shares accrued over the
deferral period.
TIMELINE FOR DEFERRED BONUS PLAN
year 1 year 2 year 3 year 4 year 5
ReleaseAward
Deferral periodPerformance period
for annual bonus
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
The LTIP focuses on performance relative to other oil majors.
To recognise the removal of the performance matching shares from the
DBP, REMCO currently envisages 2015 LTIP awards will have a target
value of 340% and 270% of base sa lary for the Chief Executive
Officer and other Executive Directors respectively. This is within the
policy limit which allows REMCO to make awards up to 400% of base
salary.
The LTIP grants share-based awards which may vest by reference to
Shell’s performance against predefined measures over a three-year
performance period. For 2015, these measures will consist of TSR, EPS
growth on a current cost of supplies (CCS) basis, ROACE growth and
net cash growth from operating activities. REMCO will regularly review
the performance metrics and weightings. REMCO retains the right to
adjust the metrics and/or weightings, so as to ensure that the LTIP
continues to serve its intended purpose.
2015 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE MEASURES FOR
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
30% weight 20% weight
TSR
Assessment of actual wealth created for
shareholders.
Return on average capital
employed (ROACE) growth
Indicator of capital discipline.
30% weight 20% weight
EPS growth (on a CCS basis) [A]
Indicator of the quality of revenue growth
and cost management that underpins
TSR.
Net cash growth from operating
activities
Source of dividends and capital expenditure
commitments which support sustainable
growth based on portfolio and cost
management.
[A] Earnings per share on a CCS basis takes into account the changes in the cost of supplies
and thereby enables a consistent comparison with other oil majors.
For simplicity, we measure and rank growth based on the data points
at the beginning of the three-year performance period relative to the
data points at the end of the period, using publicly reported data.
When comparing performance against four peer companies, the
relative performance ranking is as indicated in the table below. The
LTIP comparator group currently consists of BP, Chevron, ExxonMobil
and Total. REMCO retains the right to adjust the comparator group, to
ensure that it remains appropriate. If this leads to a change in the
number of companies, the ranking framework (as set out below) may
be adjusted to ensure that the LTIP continues to meet its intended
purpose and level of challenge.
RELATIVE PERFORMANCE RANKINGS
Shell’s ranka g a inst peers on each
of the four performance measures
Number of conditional performance shares
ultimately awarded, takingi nto accountt h e
weightings of the four performance measures
1st 2 x initial LTIP award
2nd 1.5 x initial LTIP award
3rd 0.8 x initial LTIP award
4th or 5th Nil
TSR underpin
If the TSR ranking is fourth or fifth, the level of the award that can vest
on the basis of the three other measures will be capped at 50% of the
maximum payout for the LTIP.
Vesting
REMCO retains discretion to adjust the calculated vesting outcome if it
believes that this is distorted by circumstances which are unrelated to
performance, for example, reporting changes, ranking clustering,
mathematical anomalies or corporate events in the comparator group.
Upward adjustment would only be considered after consultation with
major shareholders. An explanation of any such adjustment would be
set out in the relevant Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Performance is assessed over a three-year period. Vested shares from
the LTIP are subject to a further two-year holding period post-vesting.
TIMELINE FOR LTIP SHARE AWARDS
year 1 year 2 year 3 year 4 year 5 year 6
ReleaseVesting
Retention periodPerformance period
Award
TREATMENT OF OUTSTANDING AWARDS
Incentive awards granted prior to the approval and implementation of
this policy and/or prior to an individual becoming an Executive
Director will continue to vest and be delivered in accordance with the
terms of the original award even if this is not consistent with the terms
of this policy.
As at March 12, 2014, this applies to Executive Directors Ben van
Beurden and Simon Henry, and to former Directors Peter Voser,
Malcolm Brinded and Jeroen van der Veer. Jeroen van der Veer and
Peter Voser have share options which can be exercised until May 6,
2014, and November 4, 2014, respectively. Ben van Beurden has
outstanding awards under the Performance Share Plan (PSP), LTIP and
DBP. Simon Henry, Peter Voser and Malcolm Brinded have outstanding
awards under the LTIP and DBP. Some PSP performance measures and
their relative weightings differ from those applicable to the LTIP and
DBP. In line with the terms of th e DBP awards granted between 2012
and 2014, performance matching shares may vest.
PENSIONS
Executive Directors’ pensions are maintained in their base country, as
are those of other employees working internationally.
Pension accruals are determined by the plan rules of the base country
pension plan of which the Executive Director is a member. These are
not subject to performance conditions.

GOVERNANCE 95
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
SHAREHOLDING
The Chief Executive Officer is expected to build up a shareholding of
seven times his base salary over five years from appointment. Other
Executive Directors are expected to build up a shareholding of four
times their base salary over the same period. In the event of an
increase to the guideline multiple of salary, for every additional
multiple of salary required, the director will have one extra year to
reach the increased guideline, subject to a maximum of five years from
t h ed a t eo ft h ec h a n g e .
The shareholding levels are expected to be achieved through retention
of vested LTIP and DBP shares. Executive Directors are expected to
maintain the shareholding level for the full period of their appointment.
Differences for Executive Directors from other
employees
The salary for each Executive Director is determined based on the
indicators in the “Executive Directors’ remuneration policy table”, which
reflect the international nature of the Executive Directors’ labour market.
The salary for other employees is normally set on a country basis.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive the standard benefits and
allowances provided to staff in their country of employment. The
provisions which are not generally available for other employees are
described in the second paragraph of “Benefits”.
The methodology used for determining the annual bonus for Executive
Directors is broadly consistent with the approach to determining annual
bonuses for Shell employees generally. However, the scorecard used
for the majority of Shell staff differs in the make-up and weighting of the
metrics used. Like Executive Directors, members of Senior Management
are required to defer part of their annual bonus in DBP shares.
Executive Directors are not eligible to receive new awards under other
employee share plans although awards previously granted will
continue to vest in accordance with the terms of the original award.
Selected employees participate in the PSP. The operation of the PSP is
similar to the LTIP, but currently differs, for example, in some
performance measures and their relative weightings.
There are no special pension arrangements exclusive to Executive
Directors.
Illustratio n of potential re muneratio n outcomes
The scenario charts below represent estimates under three scenarios
(“Minimum”, “At target”, and “Maximum”) of the potential remuneration
outcomes for each Executive Director resulting from the application of
2014 base salaries to awards, anticipated to be made in 2015 in
accordance with the policy.
The scenario charts are based on future policy award levels effective
January 1, 2015, combined with proj ected single total figures of
r e m u n e r a t i o nf o rB e nv a nB e u rd e na n dS i m o nH e n r y .T h ep a y
scenarios are forward-looking and only serve to illustrate the future
policy. The scenarios are based on current incumbents and thus depict
the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO)
roles.
These scenarios have been prepared on the following basis:
FIXED PAY
In all three scenarios fixed pay includes base salaries effective
January 1, 2014, as no determinations have yet been made as to any
2015 salary increase. As the new C hief Executive Officer is not
included in the table showing the 2012 and 2013 single total figure
of remuneration for Executive Directors, Ben van Beurden’s benefits and
pension values are estimates for a typical year. For the Chief Financial
Officer pay scenarios, benefits an d pension have been valued as per
the values included in that table.
ANNUAL INCENTIVE
The “Minimum” scenario assumes tha t Shell’s performance is such that
no bonus is payable. The “At target” scenario assumes Shell’s
performance results in a bonus equal to the target bonus of 150% of
base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 120% for the Chief
Financial Officer. The “Maximum” scenario assumes Shell’s
performance results in the maximum bonus payment of 250% of base
salary for the Chief Exe cutive Officer and 240% for the Chief Financial
Officer. For the portion of the bonus deferred in DBP shares, the
scenarios assume no share price movement and exclude dividend
accrual, although dividend accrual during the deferral period is a
feature of the DBP.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE
The “Minimum” scenario assumes that no LTIP awards vest. The “At
target” scenario assumes the LTIP awards vest at target performance.
For 2015, the target LTIP awards a re illustrated as 340% of base
salary for the Chief Exe cutive Officer and 270% for the Chief Financial
Officer. The “Maximum” scenario for both assumes that the LTIP
awards vest at the maximum, which for the 2015 awards is 200% of
the shares originally awarded. Th e scenarios assume no share price
movement and exclude dividend accrual, although dividend accrual
during the performance period is a feature of the LTIP.
CEO PAY SCENARIOS
€ million
16
14
12
10
8
2.0
Minimum
Fixed pay
Annual incentive
Long-term incentive
At target Maximum
8.9
15.0
100% 22%
24%
54%
64%
23%
13%
6
4
2
0
CFO PAY SCENARIOS
million
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
1.6
5.5
9.4
100%
50%
22%
28% 17%
25%
58%
Minimum
Fixed pay
Annual incentive
Long-term incentive
At target Maximum
€

96 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
CONTINUED
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE
Fee structure Approach to setti ng fees Other re muneration
Non-executive Directors (NEDs) receive a fixed annual fee
for their directorship. The size of the fee will differ based
on the position on the Board: Chairman of the Board fee
or standard Non-executive Director fee.
Additional annual fee(s) are payable to any director who
serves as Senior Independent Director, a Board committee
chairman, or a Board committee member.
A NED receives either a chairman or member fee for
each committee. This means that a chairman of a
committee does not receive both fees.
NEDs receive an additional fee of €5,000 for any Board
meeting involving intercontinental travel – except for one
meeting a year held in a location other than The Hague.
The Chairman’s fee is
determined by REMCO. The
Board determines the fees
payable to NEDs. The
maximum aggregate annual
fees will be within the limit
specified by the Articles of
Association and in accordance
with the NEDs’ responsibilities
and time commitments.
The Board reviews NED fees
periodically to ensure that they
are aligned with those of other
major listed companies.
Business expenses incurred in respect of the performance of
t h e i rd u t i e sa saN E Dw i l lb ep a i do rr e i m b u r s e db yS h e l l .
Such expenses could include transport between home and
office and occasional business-required spouse travel.
Where required, the Chairman is offered Shell-provided
accommodation in The Hague. REMCO has the discretion
to offer other benefits to the Chairman as appropriate to his
circumstances. Where business expenses or benefits create
a personal tax liability to the director, Shell may cover the
associated tax.
The Chairman and the other NEDs cannot receive awards
under any incentive or performance-based remuneration plans,
and personal loans or guarantees are not granted to them.
NEDs do not accrue any retirement benefits as a result
of their non-executive directorships with Shell.
MALUS AND CLAWBACK
Incentive awards may be made subject to adjustment events. At the
d i s c r e t i o no fR E M C O ,s u c ha na w a r dm a yb ea d j u s t e db e f o r ed e l i v e r y
(malus) or reclaimed after delivery (clawback) if an adjustment event
occurs. Adjustment events will be specified in incentive award
documentation and it is intended that they will, for example, relate to
restatement of financial results due to: non-compliance with a financial
reporting requirement; or misconduct by an Executive Director or
misconduct through his direction or non-direction. REMCO retains the
right to alter the list of adjustment events in respect of future awards.
In addition, REMCO will retain discretion in assuring itself that there is
satisfactory underlying performance before releasing any variable pay
to Executive Directors and may withhold all or some of the bonus or
shares awarded if it considers that the underlying performance
(financial, environmental, safety or other) of Shell is inadequate.
RECRUITMENT
Executive Directors
REMCO determines the remuneration package for a new Executive
Director appointment. This appointment may involve external or internal
recruitment or reflect a change in role of a current Executive Director.
The remuneration package will include: salary, benefits, annual bonus,
long-term incentives and pension bene fits. If considered appropriate, it
may also include compensation for the forfeiture of awards or other
entitlements from a previous employer as well as recruitment incentives.
When determining remuneration packages for new Executive Directors,
REMCO will seek a balanced outcome which allows Shell to:
/H18546attract and motivate candidates of the right quality;
/H18546take into account the individual’s current remuneration package and
other contractual entitlements;
/H18546seek a competitive pay position relative to our comparator group,
without overpaying;
/H18546provide an incentive to join Shell and encourage relocation if
required; and
/H18546honour entitlements (for example, variable remuneration) of internal
candidates before their promotion to the Board.
REMCO will follow the approach set out below when determining the
remuneration package for a new Executive Director.
ONGOING REMUNERATION
The salary, benefits, annual bonus, long-term incentives and pension
benefits will be positioned and delivered within the framework of the
Executive Directors’ remuneration policy and its stated maximum award
and vesting levels.
COMPENSATION FOR THE FORFEIT OF ANY AWARDS UNDER VARIABLE
REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS
To facilitate external recruitment, one-off compensation in consideration
for forfeited awards under variable remuneration arrangements entered
into with a previous employer may be required in addition to the
ongoing annual remuneration package. REMCO will use its judgement
to determine the appropriate level of compensation by matching the
value of any lost awards under variable remuneration arrangements
with the candidate’s previous employer. This compensation may take
the form of a one-off cash payment or an additional award under the
LTIP. The compensation can alternatively be based on a newly created
long-term incentive plan arrangeme nt where the only participant is the
new director. The maximum for any such award is an amount equal to
the value of the forfeited variable remuneration awards, as assessed
by REMCO. Consideration will be given to appropriate performance
conditions and clawback arrangements.
REPLACEMENT OF FORFEITED ENTITLEMENTS OTHER THAN VARIABLE
REMUNERATION
There may also be a need to compensate a new Executive Director in
respect of forfeited entitlements other than variable remuneration. This
could include, for example, pension or contractual entitlements, or other
benefits. On recruitment, these entitlements may be replicated within the
Executive Directors’ remuneration policy or valued by REMCO and
compensated in cash. In cases of internal promotion to the Board, any
commitments made which cannot be effectively replaced under the
policy may, at REMCO’s discretion, continue to be honoured.

GOVERNANCE 97
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
EXCEPTIONAL RECRUITMENT INCENTIVE
Apart from the ongoing annual package and any compensation in
respect of the replacement of forfeited entitlements, there may be
circumstances in which REMCO needs to offer a one-off recruitment
incentive to ensure the right external candidate is attracted. The
necessity and level of this incentive will depend on the individual’s
circumstances.
The maximum available for this incentive would be one times the LTIP
award level, subject to the limits set out in the “Executive Directors’
remuneration policy table”.
Non-executive Directors
REMCO’s approach to setting the remuneration package for NEDs is
to offer fee levels and specific benefits (where appropriate) in line with
the “Non-executive Directors’ remuneration policy table” and subject to
the Articles of Association. NEDs are not offered variable remuneration
or retention awards.
When determining the benefits for a new Chairman, the individual
circumstances of the future Chai rman will be taken into account.
SERVICE CONTRACTS
Executive Directors have employment contracts for an indefinite period.
Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have an
employment contract but letters of appointment. Executive Directors’
employment contracts and NEDs’ letters of appointment are available
for inspection at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) or on request. For
further details on appointment and re-appointment of Directors, refer to
the “Directors’ Report”.
END OF EMPLOYMENT
Executive Directors
NOTICE PERIODS
Executive Directors’ employment contracts are governed by Dutch
employment law. This choice was made because mandatory
provisions of Dutch employment law apply even if a foreign law has
been specified to govern a contract. Employment terms are consistent
with those of other Shell staff with Dutch employment contracts. The
contracts can end by notice of either party (one month for an employee
and up to a maximum of four months for the employer) or automatically
at retirement. Under Dutch law, termination payments are not linked to
the contract’s notice period.
OUTSTANDING ENTITLEMENTS
In cases of resignation or dismissal, fixed remuneration (base salary,
benefits, and employer pension contributions) will cease on the last
day of employment, variable remuneration elements will generally
lapse and the director is not eligible for loss-of-office compensation.
The information below generally applies to termination of employment
by Shell giving notice, by mutual agreement, or in situations where the
employment terminates because of retirement with Shell consent at a
date other than the normal retirement date, redundancy or in other
similar circumstances at REMCO’s discretion.
For Executive Directors appoin ted prior to 2011, REMCO may offer
compensation for losses resulting from termination of employment of up
to one times annual pay (base salary plus target bonus). For Executive
Directors appointed from 2011 onwa rds, the employment contracts
include a cap on any payments resulting from loss of employment of
one times annual pay (base salary plus target bonus) and include a
reference to the Executive Directors’ duty to seek alternative
employment and thereby mitigate their loss. For mitigation purposes,
the delivery of compensation for loss of office payments could be
phased. This level of termination payments was part of a number of
policy changes agreed with shareholders in 2010, and seeks to
balance governance expectations and end-of-employment practice in
the Netherlands.
REMCO may adjust the termination payment for any situation where a
full payment is inappropriate, taking into consideration applicable law,
corporate governance provisions and the best interests of the Company
and shareholders as a whole.
Base salary, benefits and employer pension contributions will cease to
accrue on the last day of employment. Any annual bonus in the year of
departure is prorated for service. Dependant on the timing of the
departure, REMCO may in determining the final bonus payment
consider the latest business scorecard position or defer payment until
the full-year scorecard result is kno wn. Outstanding long-term incentive
awards will generally survive the end of employment and will remain
subject to the same vesting performance conditions, and malus and
clawback provisions, as if the director had remained in employment. If
the participant dies before the end of the performance period, the
award will vest at the target level on the date of death. In case of
death after the end of the performance period, the award will continue
to vest as described by this Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
Because DBP shares represent the bonus which a participant has
already earned and carry no further performance conditions, DBP
shares will be released at the conclusion of the normal three-year
deferral period and no proration will apply.
LTIP shares awarded from 2015 onwards will be prorated on a
monthly basis, by reference to the Director’s service within the
performance period. Outstanding LTIP awards made before 2015 are
prorated on an annual basis. The prorated awards may vest subject to
the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Non-executive Directors
No payments for loss of office will be made to NEDs.
CONSIDERATION OF OVERALL PAY AND
EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS
When setting the remuneration policy for Directors’ remuneration, no
specific employee groups were consulted nor were any remuneration
comparison measurements used to compare overall pay and
employment conditions of all Shell employees with those of the
Directors. However, pay and employment conditions of the wider Shell
employee population were taken into account by adhering to the same
performance, rewards and benefits philosophy for the Directors, as
well as overall benchmarking principles. Furthermore, any potential
differences from other employees (see “Differences for Executive
Directors from other employees”) were taken into account when
providing REMCO with advice in the formation of this Directors’
Remuneration Policy. Dialogue between management and staff is
important, with the annual Shell People Survey being one of the
principal means of gathering employee views on a range of matters.

98 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
CONTINUED
The Shell People Survey includes questions inviting employees’ views
on their pay and benefit arrangements.
REMCO is kept informed by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief
Human Resources & Corporate Officer and the Executive Vice
President Remuneration, Benefits & Services on the Group Scorecard
and any relevant remuneration matters affecting Senior Management
and other senior executives, extending to multiple levels below the
Board.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
REMCO engages with major shareholders on a regular basis
throughout the year and this allows it to test proposals when
developing the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. Specific examples of
REMCO responding to shareholder views include the increase to the
shareholding guidelines, the update to the LTIP performance conditions
to include a relative ROACE growth measure, and the removal of
matching share awards from the DBP.
ADDITIONAL POLICY STATEMENT
REMCO reserves the right to make payments outside the policy in
limited exceptional circumstances, such as for regulatory, tax or
administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation or
exchange controls, and only wher e REMCO considers such payments
are necessary to give effect to the intent of the policy.
Signed on behalf of the Board
/s/ Michiel Brandjes
Michiel Brandjes
Company Secretary
March 11, 2015

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 99
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’
REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF
R O Y A LD U T C HS H E L LP L C
REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Our opi nion
In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements of Royal Dutch
Shell plc (the Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively Shell):
/H18546give a true and fair view of the state of Shell’s affairs as at
December 31, 2014 and of its inco me and cash flows for the year
then ended;
/H18546have been properly prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European
Union; and
/H18546have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006 and Artic le 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opi nion in relatio n to IFRS as issued by the
International Accou ntingS t andards Board (IASB)
As explained in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
Shell, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS
as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as issued
by the IASB.
In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements comply with IFRS
as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise:
/H18546the Consolidated Statement of Income and Consolidated Statement
of Comprehensive Income for the year ended December 31, 2014;
/H18546the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2014;
/H18546the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended
December 31, 2014;
/H18546the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended
December 31, 2014; and
/H18546the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which include a
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory
information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the
Annual Report and Form 20-F (the Annual Report) rather than in the
Consolidated Financial Statements. These are cross-referenced from the
Consolidated Financial Statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements is applicable law
and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach
OVERVIEW
Materiality /H18546Overall materiality: $1,415 million which
represents 5% of income before taxation. This
group materiality is allocated, at a lower level, to
local audit teams.
Scoping
/H18546We conducted full scope audit procedures in
respect of operations in nine countries.
/H18546We conducted limited scope audit procedures in
respect of operations in a further nine countries.
/H18546Our audit scope addressed 70% of consolidated
revenue and 66% of consolidated assets.
/H18546The group audit team conducted an overall
review, and audit procedures over specific areas
including acquisitions, divestments and
impairment.
Areas off ocus
/H18546Recoverability of the carrying amount of refining
assets.
/H18546Recoverability of the carrying amount of North
American tight-gas and liquids-rich shale assets.
/H18546Impact of the deterioration in the short-term oil and
gas price environment.
/H18546A l l o c a t i o no ft h ep u r c h a s ep r i c ei nr e s p e c to ft h e
Repsol acquisition.
/H18546Estimation of decommissioning and restoration
provisions.
/H18546Estimation in respect of uncertain tax positions
and recognition of deferred tax assets.
/H18546Accounting for divestments.
/H18546Accuracy of the recognition of unrealised trading
revenue.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK and Ireland)).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the
risks of material misstatement in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective
judgements, for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates
that involved making assumptions and considering future events that
are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the
risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating
whether there was evidence of bias b y the Directors that represented a
risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
MATERIALITY APPLIED IN OUR WORK
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of
materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine
the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit
procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both
individually and in aggregate, on the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
Based on our judgement, we determined materiality for the
Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole as follows:
Overall materiality $1,415 million (2013: $1,675 million).
How we determined it 5% of income before taxation.
Rationale for benchmark
applied
We applied this benchmark, a generally
accepted auditing practice, in the
absence of indicators that an alternative
benchmark would be more appropriate.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them
misstatements identified durin g our audit above $75 million (2013:
$75 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our
view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
In terms of the audit work at the local business unit level, this is
performed by reference to materiality either allocated as a proportion
of the overall materiality, or materiality determined in the context of
local reporting requirements, generally local statutory accounts.
DETERMINING THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT
We determined the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Consolidated
Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic
spread of the Shell businesses, the nature of the accounting processes
and controls, and the inherent features of the industry in which Shell
operates.
Shell is structured along three reportable segments: Upstream,
Downstream and Corporate. The Consolidated Financial Statements
include Shell’s operating businesses and centralised functions spread
across more than 70 countries.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined
the type of work required to be performed at the reporting units by us,
as the group engagement team, or PwC component auditors from
within the UK and other network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we
determined the level of our involvement necessary at those reporting
units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit
evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the
Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole.
We identified 44 reporting units in nine countries that, in our view,
required an audit of their complete financial information due to their
size or risk characteristics. Specific audit procedures over certain
balances and transactions were performed on a further 36 reporting
units in 14 countries. The scoping of these reporting units resulted in
audit procedures being performed over 70% of consolidated revenue
and 66% of consolidated assets. In addition, work at the component
l e v e li ss u p p l e m e n t e db yw o r ka tt h eg r o u pl e v e lb yr e f e r e n c et or i s k
and materiality.
During the year, the Senior Statutory Auditor visited 10 locations:
Canada, Qatar, Russia, Singapore and the USA (twice), and each of
Shell’s five business service centres. During these visits, he met with
local management and component auditors. Other senior members of
the group audit team also visited Shell’s operations in Nigeria,
Singapore and the USA. Members of the group audit team performed
onsite reviews of audit working papers for certain locations, including
Germany, Malaysia and the USA. The Senior Statutory Auditor also
hosted a planning workshop in N ovember 2014 for audit partners
responsible for the key reporting units.
OUR AREAS OF AUDIT FOCUS
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our
audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are
identified as areas of focus in the table below. We have also set out
how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to
provide an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements as a
whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures
should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks
identified by our audit.
Area of focus
How our audit addressed the area of
focus
Recoverability of the carrying
amount of refining assets
The performance of and outlook
for refining assets in certain
locations, in particular Asia and
Europe, continues to be
challenging due to excess
global refining capacity against
a backdrop of reduced demand
growth. This gives rise to a
heightened risk of impairment.
The assessment of the
recoverable amount of refinery
assets, as calculated under both
t h ev a l u e - i n - u s ea n df a i rv a l u e
less cost to sell bases, requires
considerable judgement on the
part of management. Estimates
of future cash flows are based
on management’s views of
variables such as future
commodity prices, market supply
and demand, and product
margins.
During the year, management
identified indicators of potential
impairment in a number of
refineries within Shell’s portfolio.
Management prepared
impairment models for these
refineries and, as disclosed in
Note 8 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, a pre-tax
aggregate impairment charge of
$2.8 billion was recognised.
Our focus was on the risk that
the impairment charge may be
understated or that impairment
charges may also be required
for other refinery assets.
We confirmed the appropriateness
of management’s defined cash
generating units (CGUs) within its
refining business. We reviewed
management’s macro-economic
assumptions, inc luding forecast
supply and demand and their
associated impact on margins, and
compared these with published
f o r e c a s t si s s u e db yr e c o g n i s e dt h i r d
party industry analysts. We found
that management’s forecast margins
were consistent with these external
market views.
Detailed audit procedures were
performed in respect of the risk-
adjusted models for refineries where
management’s review of the macro-
economic assumptions suggested
that asset write-downs may be
required. These procedures included
an assessment of the reasonableness
of the site-specific adjustments to the
forecast margins, including a
lookback at prior performance
against regional benchmark
margins, assessment of the
reasonableness of volume
throughput forecasts, inflation rates
and the discount rate used. Our
consideration included assessment
of the appropriateness of probability
weightings applied to differing
scenarios. We also validated the
integrity of the valuation models
developed by management as part
of the impairment assessment and
identified no concerns.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 101
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Area of focus
How our audit addressed the area of
focus
We performed sensitivity analyses
around the key assumptions, with
the calculation being most sensitive
to changes in the realised margin
per barrel at each refinery. We
calculated the extent to which these
a s s u m p t i o n sw o u l dn e e dt oc h a n g e
before the impact was material and
assessed the likelihood of these
movements occurring. We assessed
the financial statement disclosures in
light of the analyses and consider
them to be appropriate.
Recoverability of the carrying
amount of North American tight-
gas and liquids-rich shale assets
The 2014 strategic review of
the North American tight-gas
and liquids-rich shale portfolio
was performed in the context of
increased capital discipline and
the commitment by management
to keep, fix or divest assets. As
a result, management identified
certain assets where it was
necessary to consider whether
asset carrying amounts were
recoverable.
This resulted in a pre-tax
impairment charge of $2.7
billion in respect of certain tight-
gas assets in the Upstream
Americas portfolio.
In addition to confirming the
appropriateness of management’s
definition of CGUs for the relevant
assets, we benchmarked
management’s key macro-economic
assumptions, such as future gas and
liquids prices, and other general
assumptions used, such as the
discount and inflation rates, against
third party data. We found the
assumptions used by management
to be consistent with relevant third
party sources.
We performed detailed procedures
for the assets where the need for an
impairment review was identified by
management. For those assets
expected to be retained in the
portfolio, we checked the
mathematical accuracy of
management’s risk-adjusted cash
flow model on the value-in-use basis,
confirmed that the oil or gas
reserves incorporated into the model
were consistent with the estimates
prepared by reservoir engineers,
and assessed the reasonableness of
the probability weighting assigned
to potential scenarios. We found
these models to be consistent with
the value-in-use approach defined in
IFRS and management’s asset-
specific business plans.
For those assets which were being
actively marketed, the impairment
assessment was performed on the fair
value less cost to sell basis, with the
fair value corroborated by reference
to indicative or final bids.
Area of focus
How our audit addressed the area of
focus
Impact of the deterioration in
the short-term oil and gas price
environment
During the second half of 2014,
the spot price of Brent crude oil
declined approximately 50%,
from over $110/b to around
$55/b at year end. The market
drivers behind this short-term price
movement could contribute to a
revision in long-term price views
which are the key assumption in
management’s impairment
assessment.
We compared the short- and long-
term price assumptions used by
management in their Upstream
impairment testing to forward curves
at December 31, 2014 and recent
forecasts published by brokers,
economists, consultancies and
respected industry bodies such as the
International Energy Agency, which
creates a range of relevant third-party
data points.
We found that management’s short-
term price assumptions were above
the forward curve at December 31,
2014 but that this had no material
impact on management’s
impairment conclusions.
With regard to long-term price
assumptions, we considered
management’s assessment of the
potential effects on the carrying
a m o u n to fe x p l o r a t i o na n d
p r o d u c t i o na s s e t so fas u s t a i n e d
reduction in long-term prices, within
the range established by the third-
party data points. In particular we
focused our work on the
Groundbirch tight-gas asset in
Canada and concluded that the
carrying amount remained
supportable in a lower long-term
price scenario.
We also considered the impact of
the recent price movement on
deferred tax assets (as described
below) and the valuation of
derivatives and inventories. Under
IFRS, derivatives are recognised at
fair value. We audited the year end
valuation, focusing on the key
judgements, and identified no
material issues. Inventories are
recognised at the lower of cost and
net realisable value and at year end
management recorded write-downs
to the carrying amount of
inventories. Based on our audit
work, we are satisfied that Shell’s
inventory balances have been
appropriately recorded.
This adverse price movement
reflects a current excess of
supply over demand, with
increased uncertainty regarding
the medium and longer-term
effects. The key drivers behind
the excess supply include:
/H18546The OPEC members deciding
in November 2014 to
maintain current output levels;
/H18546Russian oil production rising to
a near post-Soviet era high
despite the imposition of EU
and US sanctions; and
/H18546US oil production reaching a
30-year high, predominantly
as a result of shale oil.
This strong supply environment
has coincided with weakening
global demand growth mainly
driven by a weaker economic
outlook for China, warmer winter
weather in Europe, reduced
consumption in OECD countries
a n dc o n t i n u e de c o n o m i c
uncertainty in the eurozone.
The carrying amounts of
exploration and production
assets and deferred tax assets
are dependent upon the future
cash flows and profits of the
business. Bearing in mind the
long-lived nature of Shell’s
assets, the most critical
assumptions are the longer-term
oil and gas prices, beyond the
next three to four years.

102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
Area of focus
How our audit addressed the area of
focus
Assets which are relatively
mature or short-lived will be
more exposed to the effect of
depressed shorter-term prices. It
also leads to greater volatility in
mark-to-market adjustments for
certain financial instruments and
the need to consider whether net
realisable value is lower than
cost of crude oil and product
inventories included in the
balance sheet.
Allocation of the purchase price
in respect of the Repsol
acquisition
D u r i n gt h ey e a r ,S h e l lc o m p l e t e d
the acquisition of a portfolio of
LNG assets from Repsol S.A.
The transaction fell under the
scope of IFRS 3 Business
Combinations and therefore the
acquired assets and liabilities
were recognised at fair value in
Shell’s Consolidated Financial
Statements. These assets include
a number of long-term contracts
for the supply of LNG.
Management engaged a third
party to provide an independent
valuation of these and other
assets and liabilities acquired.
We assessed the appropriateness of
the valuation methodology adopted
in determining fair values, the
underlying assumptions and the
mathematical accuracy of the
valuation models. In particular, we
considered whether it was
appropriate to allocate the majority
of the purchase price to acquired
contracts, as detailed in Note 29 to
the Consolidated Financial
Statements, or whether a portion of
t h ep u r c h a s ep r i c es h o u l db e
recognised as goodwill. Our
detailed testing of the valuation of
the contracts, including considering
the reasonableness of significant
underlying assumptions, confirmed
the appropriateness of
management’s valuation approach
and the purchase price allocation.
Estimation of decommissioning
and restoration provisions
The calculation of
decommissioning and restoration
provisions, which are primarily in
respect of Upstream assets,
requires significant management
judgement because of the
inherent complexity in estimating
future costs. The
decommissioning of offshore
infrastructure is a relatively
immature activity and
consequently there is limited
historical precedent against
which to benchmark estimates of
future cost. These factors increase
the complexity involved in
determining accurate accounting
provisions that are material to
Shell’s balance sheet.
We critically appraised
management’s annual review of
provisions and performed detailed
testing of the provision recorded in
respect of certain assets based on the
associated risk and materiality. We
focused in particular on late-life
assets, where changes to the cost
estimate directly impact the income
statement rather than being
recognised as an asset. Testing
involved understanding the
mandatory or constructive obligations
with respect to the decommissioning
of each asset based on the
contractual arrangements and
relevant local regulation to validate
the appropriateness of the method of
decommissioning underpinning the
cost estimate.
For these assets we considered the
competence of the experts, whether
internal or external to Shell, who
produced the cost estimates.
Area of focus
How our audit addressed the area of
focus
Shell review decommissioning
and restoration provisions on an
annual basis. This review
incorporates the effects of any
changes in local regulations,
management’s expected
approach to decommissioning
and discount rates, along with
the effects of changes in
exchange rates.
We tested the accuracy of
calculations and evaluated the
appropriateness of the discount rate
used. In addition, we performed
sensitivity analyses to understand the
potential impact of reasonable
changes in assumptions on the
provisions recognised. This analysis
confirmed management’s view that
likely changes in assumptions do not
materially impact the provisions
recorded.
Estimation in respect of
uncertain tax positions and
recognition of deferred tax
assets
Management is required to
exercise considerable judgement
when determining the
appropriate amount to provide in
respect of uncertain tax positions,
which are generally associated
with acquisitions, divestments and
other activities in countries where
the tax regime is uncertain,
immature or changing.
We performed detailed testing over
the tax positions in the significant tax
jurisdictions in which Shell has
operations, including utilising local
tax expertise. Procedures included
testing the rates applied to calculate
provisions and deferred tax
balances, and a probability
assessment of the potential outcomes
where uncertain tax positions exist,
based on communications received
from the relevant tax authorities and
applying our local knowledge and
experience.
Where deferred tax assets arise,
management judgement is
required to assess the
recoverability of the balance, in
particular by reference to
forecast future taxable income.
The periods over which the
deferred tax assets are expected
to be recovered can be
extensive.
With respect to deferred tax
balances, we examined
documentation supporting the
recoverability of deferred tax assets
recognised, placing particular
emphasis on the reasonableness of
the forecasts which underpin the
asset recognition, including the
impact of recent price deterioration.
We found that support for the
recognition of these deferred tax
assets was consistent with the long-
term business plans used by
management to manage and
monitor the performance of the
business, which were updated
during the second half of 2014.
Accounting for divestments
Having publicly announced in
early 2014 the intention to
generate proceeds of
$15 billion from the divestment
of assets in 2014 and 2015,
Shell generated proceeds of
$14 billion from divestments
during the year.
We read management’s accounting
papers associated with each
transaction and assessed whether
the proposed treatment was
consistent with the requirements of
IFRS and agreed key assumptions or
facts within the papers to underlying
d o c u m e n t a t i o ns u c ha st h es a l ea n d
purchase agreements. No
discrepancies were noted between

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 103
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Area of focus
How our audit addressed the area of
focus
Our focus was on understanding
the contractual terms which
define the assets and liabilities
divested and also, in particular,
any liabilities or obligations
retained or created. Additional
complexity can also arise where
a partial disposal occurs, as this
can change the accounting for
the retained asset.
In particular, we placed focus
on the divestments of the
majority of the Downstream
business in Australia, onshore
Upstream assets in Nigeria and
a portion of Shell’s interest in
Woodside Petroleum Limited
(Woodside).
the accounting treatment employed
by Shell and the requirements of
IFRS.
For material transactions, we
verified consideration received and
agreed it to the proceeds
recognised in the cash flow
statement. We confirmed that the
appropriate accounting entries,
including de-recognition of divested
assets, were recorded. We
reviewed relevant contracts with a
particular focus on obligations
retained by Shell post-divestment.
Our procedures confirmed that
appropriate consideration of the
impact of contractual terms on
Shell’s post-divestment balance sheet
had been applied by management.
We also considered whether the
reduction in Shell’s interest in
Woodside altered Shell’s ability to
exert significant influence over
Woodside, to confirm that it
remained appropriate to classify
Woodside as an associate.
Accuracy of the recognition of
unrealised trading revenue
Unrealised revenue arises on
Shell’s trading activities because
of the requirement under IFRS to
fair value derivative contracts.
These contracts principally relate
to commodity supply
arrangements with derivatives
embedded in the contractual
terms.
Management are required to
exercise judgement in valuing
these derivative contracts,
particularly where the life of the
contract is beyond the liquid
market period requiring bespoke
models and giving rise to a risk
of material misstatement.
Particular focus has been placed
on the valuation of derivative
contracts at the balance sheet
date.
We assessed the overall commodity
trading process, including internal
risk management procedures and
the system and controls around
origination and maintenance of
complete and accurate information
relating to derivative contracts. We
found the controls in place to be
operating effectively and therefore
placed reliance on these in our
testing.
In addition, we tested the valuation
of derivative contracts at December
31, 2014 which require the use of
valuation models. Our audit
procedures focused on the integrity
of these valuation models and the
incorporation of the contract terms
and the key assumptions, including
future price assumptions and
discount rates, in the models. Our
testing confirmed that models used
to value contracts are appropriate
for the purposes of the valuations.
GOING CONCERN
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’
statement, set out on page 63, in relation to going concern. We have
nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that
it is appropriate to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements
using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis
presumes that Shell has adequate resources to remain in operation,
and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the
date the Consolidated Financial Statements were signed. As part of
our audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going
concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted,
these statements are not a guarantee as to Shell’s ability to continue as
a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
Consiste ncy of other i nformation
COMPANIES ACT 2006 OPINION
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the
Directors’ Report for the financia l year for which the Consolidated
Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
ISAs (UK AND IRELAND) REPORTING
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our
opinion:
/H18546information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to
report arising from this
responsibility.
/H18546materially inconsistent with the
information in the audited
Consolidated Financial Statements; or
/H18546apparently materially incorrect based
on, or materially inconsistent with, our
knowledge of Shell acquired in the
course of performing our audit; or
/H18546otherwise misleading.
/H18546the statement given by the Directors on
page 63, in accordance with the UK
Corporate Governance Code (the
Code) Provision C.1.1, that they
consider the Annual Report including the
financial statements, taken as a whole,
is fair, balanced and understandable
and provides the information necessary
for members to assess Shell’s
performance, business model and
strategy is materially inconsistent with
our knowledge of Shell acquired in the
course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to
report arising from this
responsibility.
/H18546the section of the Annual Report on
pages 76-78, as required by Code
Provision C.3.8, describing the work
of the Audit Committee does not
appropriately address matters
communicated by us to the Audit
Committee.
We have no exceptions to
report arising from this
responsibility.

104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
Adequacy o f information ande x p l anations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in
our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations
we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from
this responsibility.
Directors’ re muneratio n
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in
our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by
law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this
responsibility.
Corporate Gover nance state ment
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the
Corporate Governance statement relating to the Company’s
compliance with nine provisions of the Code. We have nothing to
report having performed our review.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
Our respo nsibilities a ndt h o s eof the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set
out on pages 62 and 63, the Directors are responsible for the
preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and for being
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the
Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law
and ISAs (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for
the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or
i n t ow h o s eh a n d si tm a yc o m es a v ew h e r ee x p r e s s l ya g r e e db yo u r
prior consent in writing.
What a n audit o ff inancial state ments involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements sufficient to give
reasonable assurance that the Consolidated Financial Statements are
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This
includes an assessment of:
/H18546whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Shell’s
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately
disclosed;
/H18546the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the
Directors; and
/H18546the overall presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements
and evaluating the disclosures in the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive
procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in
the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited
Consolidated Financial Statements and to identify any information that
is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent
w i t h ,t h ek n o w l e d g ea c q u i r e db yu si nt h ec o u r s eo fp e r f o r m i n gt h e
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OTHER MATTER
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial
Statements of Royal Dutch Shell plc for the year ended December 31,
2014, and on the information in the Directors’ Remu neration Report
that is described as having been audited.
Ross Hu nter (Se nior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London, United Kingdom
March 11, 2015
Note that the report set out above is included for the purposes of
Royal Dutch Shell plc’s Annual Report and Accounts for 2014 only
and does not form part of Royal Dutch Shell plc’s Annual Report on
Form 20-F for 2014.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 105
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ROYAL DUTCH
SHELL PLC SHAREHOLDERS
In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Income,
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes
in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Royal Dutch Shell plc (the
Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively Shell) at December 31,
2014, and December 31, 2013, and the results of their operations
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2014, in conformity w ith International Financial
Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board and in conformity with International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. Also in our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014,
based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Co mmission (COSO). The Company’s
management is responsible for these Consolidated Financial
Statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting of Shell set out on pages 70 and 71.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these Consolidated
Financial Statements and on the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our
audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements are free of
material misstatement and whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits
of the Consolidated Financial Statements included examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
Consolidated Financial Statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorisations of management and directors of the company; and
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.
Because of its inherent limitations , internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
London, United Kingdom
March 11, 2015
Note that the report set out above is included for the purposes of Royal
Dutch Shell plc’s Annual Report o n Form 20-F for 2014 only and does
not form part of Royal Dutch Shell plc’s Annual Report and Accounts for
2014.

106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
107 Consolidated Statement of Income
107 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
108 Consolidated Balance Sheet
109 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
110 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
111 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
111 Note 1 Basis of preparation
111 Note 2 Accounting policies
116 Note 3 Key accounting estimates and judgements
117 Note 4 Segment information
119 Note 5 Interest and other income
119 Note 6 Interest expense
119 Note 7 Intangible assets
120 Note 8 Property, plant and equipment
122 Note 9 Joint ventures and associates
122 Note 10 Investments in securities
123 Note 11 Trade and other receivables
123 Note 12 Inventories
123 Note 13 Cash and cash equivalents
124 Note 14 Debt and lease arrangements
126 Note 15 Trade and other payables
127 Note 16 Taxation
129 Note 17 Retirement benefits
131 Note 18 Decommissioning and other provisions
131 Note 19 Financial instruments and other derivative contracts
136 Note 20 Share capital
137 Note 21 Share-based compensation plans and shares held in trust
137 Note 22 Other reserves
139 Note 23 Dividends
139 Note 24 Earnings per share
140 Note 25 Legal proceedings and other contingencies
140 Note 26 Employees
140 Note 27 Directors and Senior Management
141 Note 28 Auditor’s remuneration
141 Note 29 Acquisition of Repsol LNG businesses outside North America

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 107
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME $ MILLION
NOTES 2014 2013 2012
Revenue 421,105 451,235 467,153
Share of profit of jointv entures and associates 9 6,116 7,275 8,948
Interest ando t h e rincome 5 4,123 1,089 5,599
Total revenue ando t h e rincome 431,344 459,599 481,700
Purchases 327,278 353,199 369,725
Production and manufacturinge x p enses 30,038 28,386 26,215
Selling, distribution anda dministrative expenses 13,965 14,675 14,465
Research and development 1,222 1,318 1,307
Exploration 4,224 5,278 3,104
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation 24,499 21,509 14,615
Interest expense 6 1,804 1,642 1,757
Incomeb efore taxation 28,314 33,592 50,512
Taxation 16 13,584 17,066 23,552
Income for the period 4 14,730 16,526 26,960
(Loss)/incomea t t r i b u t a b l et onon-controllingi nterest (144) 155 248
Income attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 14,874 16,371 26,712
Basic earnings per share ($) 24 2.36 2.60 4.27
Diluted earnings per share ($) 24 2.36 2.60 4.26
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME $ MILLION
NOTES 2014 2013 2012
Income for the period 14,730 16,526 26,960
Other comprehensive income 22
Itemst h a tmay be reclassified to incomei n later periods:
Currency translation differences (5,321) (1,938) 1,394
Unrealised losses on securities (797) (166) (815)
Cash flow hedgingg a ins 528 178 31
Share of other comprehensive loss of jointv entures and associates 9 (156) (167) (222)
Total (5,746) (2,093) 388
Itemst h a ta r enot reclassified to incomei n later periods:
Retirementb enefits remeasurements (6,482) 3,833 (2,578)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the period (12,228) 1,740 (2,190)
Comprehensive income for the period 2,502 18,266 24,770
Comprehensive (loss)/income attributable to non-controllingi nterest (190) 23 300
Comprehensive income attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 2,692 18,243 24,470

108 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET $ MILLION
NOTES Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 7 7,076 4,394
Property, planta nde q u i pment 8 192,472 191,897
Jointv entures and associates 9 31,558 34,613
Investments in securities 10 4,115 4,715
Deferred tax 16 8,131 5,785
Retirementb enefits 17 1,682 3,574
Trade and other receivables 11 8,304 9,191
253,338 254,169
Current assets
Inventories 12 19,701 30,009
Trade and other receivables 11 58,470 63,638
Cash and cash equivalents 13 21,607 9,696
99,778 103,343
Total assets 353,116 357,512
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Debt 14 38,332 36,218
Trade and other payables 15 3,582 4,065
Deferred tax 16 12,052 11,943
Retirementb e
nefits 17 16,318 11,182
Decommissioninga nd other provisions 18 23,834 19,698
94,118 83,106
Current liabilities
Debt 14 7,208 8,344
Trade and other payables 15 64,864 70,112
Taxes payable 16 9,797 11,173
Retirementb enefits 17 377 382
Decommissioninga nd other provisions 18 3,966 3,247
86,212 93,258
Total liabilities 180,330 176,364
Equity
Share capital 20 540 542
Shares held in trust 21 (1,190) (1,932)
Other reserves 22 (14,365) (2,037)
Retained earnings 186,981 183,474
Equity attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 171,966 180,047
Non-controllingi nterest 820 1,101
Total equity 172,786 181,148
Total liabilities ande q u i t y 353,116 357,512
Signed on behalf of the Board
/s/ Simon Henry
Simon Henry
Chief Financial Officer
March 11, 2015

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 109
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY $ MILLION
Equity attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders
Share capital
(see Note 20)
Shares
held in
trust
(see Note 21)
Other
reserves
(see Note 22)
Retained
earnings Total
Non-
controlling
interest
Total
equity
At January 1, 2014 542 (1,932) (2,037) 183,474 180,047 1,101 181,148
Comprehensive income for the period – – (12,182) 14,874 2,692 (190) 2,502
Capital contributions from,a nd other changes
in, non-controllingi nterest [A] – – – 727 727 25 752
Dividends paid (see Note 23) – – – (11,843) (11,843) (116) (11,959)
Scrip dividends (see Note 23) 6 – (6) 2,399 2,399 – 2,399
Repurchases of shares (8) – 8 (2,787) (2,787) – (2,787)
Shares held in trust: net sales and dividends
received – 742 – 107 849 – 849
Share-based compensation – – (148) 30 (118) – (118)
At December 31, 2014 540 (1,190) (14,365) 186,981 171,966 820 172,786
At January 1, 2013 542 (2,287) (3,752) 180,246 174,749 1,433 176,182
Comprehensive income for the period – – 1,872 16,371 18,243 23 18,266
Capital contributions from,a nd other changes
in, non-controllingi nterest – – – 18 18 (103) (85)
Dividends paid (see Note 23) – – – (11,338) (11,338) (252) (11,590)
Scrip dividends (see Note 23) 12 – (12) 4,140 4,140 – 4,140
Repurchases of shares (12) – 12 (5,757) (5,757) – (5,757)
Shares held in trust: net sales and dividends
received – 355 – 126 481 – 481
Share-based compensation – – (157) (332) (489) – (489)
At December 31, 2013 542 (1,932) (2,037) 183,474 180,047 1,101 181,148
At January 1, 2012 536 (2,990) (1,961) 162,895 158,480 1,486 159,966
Comprehensive income for the period – – (2,242) 26,712 24,470 300 24,770
Capital contributions from,a nd other changes
in, non-controllingi nterest – – – 39 39 (61) (22)
Dividends paid (see Note 23) – – – (10,955) (10,955) (292) (11,247)
Scrip dividends (see Note 23) 9 – (9) 3,565 3,565 – 3,565
Repurchases of shares (3) – 3 (1,728) (1,728) – (1,728)
Shares held in trust: net sales and dividends
received – 703 – 150 853 – 853
Share-based compensation – – 457 (432) 25 – 25
At December 31, 2012 542 (2,287) (3,752) 180,246 174,749 1,433 176,182
[A] Mainly relates to the initial public offering of limited partner units in Shell Midstream Partners, L.P. The difference between the proceeds afte r tax and the increase in non-controlling interest,
measured by reference to the carrying amount of the entity’s net assets at the date of the transaction, was recognised in retained earnings.

110 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS $ MILLION
NOTES 2014 2013 2012
Cash flow from operating activities
Income for the period 14,730 16,526 26,960
Adjustment for:
Current taxation 13,757 18,582 22,722
Interest expense (net) 1,598 1,448 1,543
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation 24,499 21,509 14,615
Net gainso n sale ofn on-current assets andb u s inesses (3,212) (382) (4,228)
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 7,958 608 (1,746)
(Increase)/decrease in current receivables (1,541) 5,648 14,145
Decrease in current payables (12) (3,268) (9,008)
Share of profit of jointv entures and associates (6,116) (7,275) (8,948)
Dividends received from jointv entures and associates 6,902 7,117 10,573
Deferred taxation,r e t i r ementb enefits, decommissioninga nd
other provisions (1,720) (2,701) 341
Other 2,500 2,937 201
Net cash from operating activities (pre-tax) 59,343 60,749 67,170
Taxation paid (14,299) (20,309) (21,030)
Net cash from operating activities 45,044 40,440 46,140
Cash flow from investing activities
Capital expenditure (31,854) (40,145) (32,576)
Investments in jointv entures and associates (1,426) (1,538) (3,028)
Proceeds from sale of property, planta nde q u i pmenta ndb u s inesses 9,873 1,212 6,346
Proceeds from sale of joi
ntv entures and associates 4,163 538 698
Other investments (net) (587) (388) (86)
Interest received 174 175 193
Net cash used in investing activities (19,657) (40,146) (28,453)
Cash flow from financing activities
Net (decrease)/increase in debt with maturity period within three months (3,332) 3,126 (165)
Other debt:
New borrowings 7,778 9,146 5,108
Repayments (4,089) (6,877) (4,960)
Interest paid (1,480) (1,307) (1,428)
Change inn on-controllingi nterest 989 (51) 23
Cash dividends paid to:
Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders 23 (9,444) (7,198) (7,390)
Non-controllingi nterest (116) (252) (292)
Repurchases of shares (3,328) (5,000) (1,492)
Shares held in trust: net sales/(purchases) and dividends received 232 (565) (34)
Net cash used inf inancing activities (12,790) (8,978) (10,630)
Currency translation differences relatingt oc a s hand cash equivalents (686) (170) 201
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 13 11,911 (8,854) 7,258
Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 9,696 18,550 11,292
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 21,607 9,696 18,550

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 111
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The Consolidated Financial Statements of Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Com pany) and its subsidiaries (collec tively referred to as Shell) have been
prepared in accordance with the provisions of t he Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the Interna tional Accounting Standar ds (IAS) Regulation,
and therefore in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. As applied to Shell, there
are no material differences from IFRS as issued by the International Accou nting Standards Board (IASB); therefore the Consolidated Financial
Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
As described in the accounting policies in Note 2, the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost
convention except for certain items measured at fair value. Those accounting policies have been applied consistently in all periods.
The Consolidated Financial Statements w ere approved and authorised for issue b y the Board of Directors on March 11, 2015.
Accountings t andards not yet adopted
The final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in 2014 which sets out the requiremen ts for recognising and measuring financial
assets, financial liabilities and some contracts to buy or sell non-financial items. It replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement . IFRS 9 is required to be adopted by 2018. The impact for Shell is u nder review and IFRS 9 may facilitate further use of hedge
accounting and also could result in different timing of income recognition in respect of certain investments in securities.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements was amended in 2014 to clarify the accounting for the acqui sition of an interest or an additional interest in a joint
operation where the joint operation itself meets the IFRS definition of a business. The principles of business combination accounting, with some
exceptions, should be applied to such transactions which take place on or after the implementation date. This differs from Shell’s current practice
which is to account for these as asset acquisitions and therefore the amendment may result in further use of fair value measurements and
recognition of goodwill. IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures were amended in
2014 to clarify the accounting for the contributio n of a business to a joint venture or an associate in exchange for an equity interest in that joint
venture or associate. A full gain or loss on sale should be recognised for such transactions which take place on or after the implementation date,
which differs from Shell’s current practice. It is not intended to early adopt these amendment s, whose effective date is January 1, 2016, and the
impact on Shell will depend on future transactions.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued in 2014 and replaces IAS 18 Revenue and certain other pronouncements. It is
required to be adopted by 2017. The impact is under review but IFRS 15 is not expected to have a sig nificant effect on Shell’s accounting or
disclosures.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Nature o f the Co nsolidated Fi nancial State ments
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in US dollars (dollars) and comprise the financial statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries, being those entities over which the Company has control, either directly or indirectly, through exposure or rights to their variable
returns and the ability to affect those returns th rough its power over the entities. Information abo ut significant subsidiaries at December 31, 2014 ,
is set out in Exhibit 8.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained until the date that such control ceases, using consistent accounting
policies. All inter-company balances and transactions, including unreal ised profits arising from such transactions, are eliminated. Unrealised losses
are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Non-controlling interest represents the
proportion of income, other comprehensive income and net assets in subsidiaries that is not attributable to the Company’s shareholders.
Nature o f operatio nsa nds e gmental reporti ng
Shell is engaged in the principal aspects of the oil and gas industry in more than 70 countries and reports its business through three segments.
Upstream combines the operating segments Upstream International and Upstream Americas, which are engaged in exploring for and recovering
crude oil and natural gas; the liquefaction and transportation of gas; the extraction of bitumen from oil sands that is converted into synthetic crude
oil; and wind energy. These operating segments have similar economic characteristics because their earnings are significantly dependent on
crude oil and natural gas prices and production volumes, and because thei r projects generally require significant investment, are complex and
generate revenues for many years. Downstream is engaged in manufacturing, supply and distribution and marketing activities for oil products and
chemicals and in alternative energy (excluding wind). Corporate represents the key support functions, comprising Shell’s holdings and treasury
organisation, including its self-insurance activities as well as its headquarters and central functions. Integrated within the Upstream and
Downstream segments are Shell’s trading activities, and functions such as safety and environment, and CO
2 management. Sales between
segments are based on prices generally equivalent to commercially available prices.
Segment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis (CCS earnings), which is the earnings measure used by the Chief Executive
Officer (CEO) for the purposes of making decisions about allocating res ources and assessing performance. O n this basis, the purchase price of
volumes sold during the period is based on the current cost of supplies d uring the same period after making allowance for the tax effect. CCS
earnings therefore exclude the effect of changes in the oil price on inventory carrying amounts.

112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 2 continued]
Currency tra nslatio n
Foreign currency transactions are translated using the exchange rate at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at quarter-end exchange rates of
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies (including those in respect of inter-company balances unless related to loans of a
long-term investment nature) are recognised in income, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges, and presented within
interest and other income or within purchases where not related to financing. Share capital issued in currencies other than the dollar is translated
a tt h ee x c h a n g er a t ea tt h ed a t eo fi s s u e .
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of non-dollar entities are translated to dollars at year-end rates of exchange, while their statements of
income, other comprehensive income and cash flows are translated at quarterly average rates. The resulting translation differences are recognised
as currency translation differences within other comprehensive income. Upon divestment of all or part of an interest in, or upon liquidation of, an
entity, the appropriate portion of cumulative currency translation differences related to that entity are generally recognised in income.
Revenue recog nition
Revenue from sales of oil, natural gas, chemicals and other products is reco gnised at the fair value of considera tion received or receivable, after
deducting sales taxes, excise duties and similar levies, when the signifi cant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred, which is when
title passes to the customer. For sales by Upstream operations, this generally occurs when product is physically transferred into a vessel, pipe or
other delivery mechanism; for sales by refining operations it is either when product is placed onboard a vessel or offloaded from the vessel,
depending on the contractually agreed terms; and f or wholesale sales of oil products and chemicals it is either at the point of delivery or the point
of receipt, depending on contractual conditions.
Revenue resulting from the production of oil and natural gas from properties in which Shell has an interest with partners in joint arrangements is
recognised on the basis of Shell’s working interest (entitlement method). Revenue resulting from the production of oil and natural gas under
production-sharing contracts is recognised for those amounts relating to Shell’s cost recoveries and Shell’s share of the remaining production.
Gains and losses on derivative contracts and the revenue and costs associated with other contracts that are classified as held for trading purposes
are reported on a net basis in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Purchases and sales of hydrocarbons under exchange contracts that are
necessary to obtain or reposition feedstocks f or refinery operations are p resented net in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Research a nd develop ment
Development costs that are expected to generate probable future economic benefits are capitalised as intangible assets. All other research and
development expenditure is recognised in income as incurred.
Exploratio n costs
Oil and natural gas exploration costs are accounted for under the succe ssful efforts method: exploration costs are recognised in income when
incurred, except that exploratory drilling costs are included in property, plant and equipment pending determination of proved reserves.
Exploration costs capitalised in respect of exploration wells that are more than 12 months old are written off unless: (a) proved reserves are
booked; or (b) (i) they have found commercially producible quantities of reserves and (ii) they are subject to further exploration or appraisal
activity in that either drilling of additional exploratory wells is underway or firmly planned for the near future or other activities are being
undertaken to sufficiently progress the assessing of reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project.
Property, pla nta nde q u i pmenta ndi ntangible assets
RECOGNITION
Property, plant and equipment co mprise assets owned by Shell, assets held by Shell under finance leases and assets operated by Shell as
contractor in production-sharing contracts. They include rights and concessions in respect of properties with proved reserves (proved properties )
and with no proved reserves (unproved properties). Property, plant and equipment, including expenditure on major inspections, and intangible
assets are initially recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost where it is probable that the y will generate future economic benefits. This
includes capitalisation of decommissioning and restoration costs associated with provisions for asset retirement (see “Provisions”), certain
development costs (see “Research and development”) and the effects of a ssociated cash flow hedges (see “Derivative contracts”) as applicable.
The accounting for exploration costs is described separately (see “Exploration costs”). Intangible assets include goodwill, capitalised off-tak ea n d
sales contracts, software costs and trademarks. Interest is capitalised, as an increase in property, plant and equipment, on major capital projects
during construction.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are subsequently ca rried at cost less accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortisation
(including any impairment). Gains and losses on disposals are determi ned by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amounts of assets sold
and are recognised in income, within interest and other income.
DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION AND AMORTISATION
Property, plant and equipment related to hydrocarbon production activities are depreciated on a unit-of-production basis over the proved
developed reserves of the field concerned, except in the case of assets whose useful lives differ from the lifetime of the field, in which case the
straight-line method is applied. Rights and concessions in respect of proved properties are depleted on the unit-of-production basis over the total
proved reserves of the relevant area. Where individually insignificant, unproved properties may be grouped and depreciated based on factors
such as the average concession term and past experience of recognising proved reserves.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 113
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Other property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are depreciated a nd amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives,
except for goodwill, which is not amortised. They include major inspection costs, which are depreciated over the estimated period before the next
planned major inspection (three to five years), and the following:
ASSET TYPE USEFUL LIFE
Property, planta nde q u i pment
Held under finance leases lease term
Refineries andc h emical plants 20 years
Retail service stations 15 years
Upgraders 30 years
Intangible assets
LNG off-take ands a l e sc ontracts 10 to 15 years
Software 5y e a r s
Trademarks 40 years
Estimates of the useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are reviewed annually and adjusted if
appropriate.
IMPAIRMENT
The carrying amount of goodwill is tested for impairment annually; in addition, assets other than unproved properties (see “Exploration costs”) are
tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indic ate that the carrying amounts for those assets may not be recoverable. If
assets are determined to be impaired, the carrying amounts of those assets are written down to their recoverable amount, which is the higher of
fair value less costs to sell (see “Fair value measurements”) and value in use.
Value in use is determined as the amount of estimated risk-adjusted discounted future cash flows. For this purpose, assets are grouped into cash-
generating units based on separately identifiable and largely independent cash inflows. Estimates of future cash flows used in the evaluation of
impairment of assets are made using management’s forecasts of commodity prices, market supply and demand, product margins and, in the case
of exploration and production assets, expected production volumes. The latter takes into account assessments of field and reservoir performance
and includes expectations about both proved reserves and volumes that are expected to constitute proved reserves in the future (unproved
volumes), which are risk-weighted utilising geological, production, recovery and economic projections. Cash flow estimates are risk-adjusted to
reflect local conditions as appropriate and discounted at a rate based on Shell’s marginal cost of debt.
Impairments, except those related to goodwill, are reversed as applicable to the extent that the events or circumstances that triggered the original
impairment have changed.
Impairment charges and reversals are reported within depreciation, depletion and amortisation.
On reclassification as held for sale, the carrying amounts of intangible assets and property, plant and equi pment are also reviewed and, where
appropriate, written down to their fa ir value less costs to sell. No further provision for depreciation, depletion or a mortisation is charged.
Leases
Agreements under which payments are made to owners in return for the rig ht to use an asset for a period are accounted for as leases. Leases that
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are recognised at the commencement of the lease term as finance leases within
property, plant and equipment and debt at the fair value of the leased a sset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance lease payments are apportioned between interest expense and re payments of debt. All other leases are classified as operating leases
and the cost is recognised in income on a straight-line basis.
Joint arra ngements and associates
Arrangements under which Shell has contractually agreed to share control (see “Nature of the Consolidated Financial Statements”) with another
party or parties are joint ventures where the parties have rights to the net assets of the arrangement, or joint operations where the parties have
rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement. Investments in entities over which Shell has the right to exerci se
significant influence but neither control nor joint control are classified as associates.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method, under which the investment is initially recognised at cost
and subsequently adjusted for the Shell share of post-acquisition income less dividends received and the Shell share of other comprehensive
income and other movements in equity, together with any loans of a long-term investment nature. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the
financial statements of joint ventures and associates to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of Shell. In an exchange of assets
and liabilities for an interest in a joint venture, the non-Shell share of any excess of the fair value of the assets and liabilities transferred over th e
pre-exchange carrying amounts is recognise d in income. Unrealised gains on other transactions between Shell and its joint ventures and
associates are eliminated to the extent of Shell’s interest in them; unrealised losses are treated similarly but may also result in an assessment of
whether the asset transferred is impaired.
Shell recognises its assets and liabilities relating to its interests in joint operations, including its share of assets held jointly and liabilitie si n c u r r e d
jointly with other partners.

114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 2 continued]
Inventories
Inventories are stated at cost or net realisable value, whichever is lower. Cost comprises direct purchase costs (including transportation), cost o f
production and manufacturing and taxes, and is determined using the first -in, first-out (FIFO) method for oil and chemicals and by the weighted
average cost method for materials.
Taxatio n
The charge for current tax is calculated based on the income reported by the Company and its subsidiaries, as adjusted for items that are non-
taxable or disallowed and using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is determined, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and
their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and on unused tax losses and credits carried forward.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the enacted or substantively enacted rates that are expected to apply when the asset or
liability is recovered. They are not recognised where they arise on the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction
(other than in a business combination) that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, or in respect of taxes on
possible future distributions of retained earnings of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates where the timing of the distribution can be contr olled
by Shell and it is probable that the retained earnings will be reinvested by the entities concerned.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible
temporary differences, unused tax losses and credits carried forward can be utilised.
Income taxes are recognised in income except when they relate to items recognised in other comprehensive income, in which case the tax is
recognised in other comprehensive income. Income tax assets and liabilities are presented separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet except
where there is a right of set-off within fiscal jurisdictions and an intention to settle such balances on a net basis.
Retire mentb enefits
Benefits in the form of retirement pensions and healthcare and life insurance are provided to certain employees and retirees under defined benefit
and defined contribution plans.
Obligations under defined benefit plans are calcul ated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method, which takes into
account employees’ years of service and, for pensions, average or fin al pensionable remuneration, and are discounted to their present value
using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds denominated in t he currency in which the benefits will be paid and of a duration consistent
with the plan obligations. Where plans are funded, payments are made to independently managed trusts; assets held by those trusts are
measured at fair value.
The amounts recognised in income in respect of defined benefit plans mainly comprise service cost and interest. Service cost comprises principally
the increase in the present value of the obligation for benefits resulting from employee service during the period (current service cost) and also
amounts relating to past service and settlements or amendments of plans. Plan amen dments are changes to benefits a n da r eg e n e r a l l yr e c o g n i s e d
when all legal and regulatory approvals have been received and the effect s have been communicated to members. Interest is calculated using the
discount rate on the net defined benefit liability or asset at the beginn ing of each year for each plan. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit
liability or asset resulting from actuarial gains and losses and the return on plan assets excluding the amount recognised in income are recognised
in other comprehensive income.
For defined contribution plans, pension expense represents the amount of employer contributions payable for the period.
Provisio ns
Provisions are recognised at the balance sheet date at management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation. Non-
current amounts are discounted at a rate intended to reflect the time value of money. Specific details for decommissioning and restoration costs are
described below. The carrying amounts of provisions are regularly re viewed and adjusted for new facts or changes in law or technology.
Provisions for decommissioning and restoration costs, which arise principally in connection with hydrocarbon production facilities and pipeline s,
are measured on the basis of current requirements, technology and price le vels; the present value is calculated using amounts discounted over the
useful economic life of the assets. The liability is recognised (togethe r with a corresponding amount as part of the related property, plant and
equipment) once an obligation crystallises in the period when a reasona ble estimate can be made. The effects of changes resulting from revisions
to the timing or the amount of the original estimate of the provision are reflected on a prospective basis, generally by adjustment to the carrying
amount of the related property, plant and equipment.
Other provisions are recognised in income in the period in which an obligation arises and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Provisions
are measured based on current legal requirements and existing technology where applicable. Recognition of any joint and several liability is
based on management’s best estimate of the final pro-rata share of the lia bility. Provisions are determined independently of expected insurance
recoveries. Recoveries are recognised when virtually certain of realisation.
Financial i nstruments and other derivative co ntracts
Financial assets and liabilities are presented separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet except where unconditional offsetting of outstanding
balances is allowed under offsetting, master netting and similar arrangements with counterparties and net settlement is regularly applied.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 115
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Investments in securities
Investments in securities (also referred to as “securities”) comprise equity and debt securities classified on initial recognition as available-f or-sale
and are carried at fair value, except where their fair value cannot be measured reliably, in which case they are carried at cost, less any
impairment. Unrealised holding gains and losses other than impairments are recognised in other comprehensive income, except for translation
differences arising on foreign currency debt securities, which are recognised in income. On maturity or disposal, net gains and losses previously
deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income are recognised in income.
Interest income on debt securities is recognised in income using the effective interest method. Dividends on equity securities are recognised in
income when receivable.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, including offsetting bank overdrafts, short-term bank deposits, money market
funds, reverse repos and similar instruments that have a maturity of three months or less at the date of acquisition.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value based on amounts exchanged and subsequently at amortised cost less any impairment.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Debt and trade payables are recognised initially at fair value based on amounts exchanged, net of transaction costs, and subsequently at
amortised cost, except for fixed rate debt subject to fair value hedging which is remeasured for the hedged risk (see “Derivative contracts”).
Interest expense on debt is accounted for using the effective interest method and, other than interest capitalised, is recognised in income.
DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS
Derivatives are used in the management of interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk, and in the management of foreign
currency cash balances. These derivative contracts are recognised at fair value.
Those derivatives qualifying and designated as hedges are either: (i) a “fair value” hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised asset or
liability or an unrecognised firm commitment; or (ii) a “cash flow” hedge of the change in cash flows to be received or paid relating to a
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
A change in the fair value of a hedging instrument designated as a fair value hedge is recognised in income, together with the consequential
adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item. The effective portion of a change in fair value of a derivative designated as a cash flow
hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income until the hedged transaction occurs; any ineffective portion is recognised in income. Where
the hedged item is a non-financial asset or liability, the amount in accumulated other comprehensive income is transferred to the initial carrying
amount of the asset or liability; for other hedged items, the amount in accumulated other comprehensive income is recognised in income when the
hedged transaction affects income.
All relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items are documented, as well as risk management objectives and strategies for
undertaking hedge transactions. The effectiveness of a hedge is also continually assessed and, when it ceases, hedge accounting is discontinued.
Gains and losses on derivatives not qualifying and designated as hedges, including forward sale and purchase contracts for commodities in
trading operations that may be settled by the physical delivery or receipt of the commodity, are recognised in income.
Unless designated as hedging instruments, contracts to sell or purchase non-financial items that can be settled net as if the contracts were financia l
instruments and that do not meet expected own use requirements (typically, forward sale and purchase contracts for commodities in trading
operations), and contracts that are or contain written options, are recognised at fair value; associated gains and losses are recognised in income.
Derivatives embedded within contracts that are not already required to be recognised at fair value, and that a re not closely related to the host
contract in terms of economic characteristics and risks, are separated from their host contract and recognised at fair value; associated gains and
losses are recognised in income.
Fair value measure ments
Fair value measurements are estimates of the amounts for which assets or liabilities could be transferred at the measurement date, based on the
assumption that such transfers take place between participants in principa l markets and, where applicable, taking highest and best use into account .
Where available, fair value measurements are derived from prices quoted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. In the absence of such
information, other observable inputs are used to estimate fair value. Inputs derived from external sources are corroborated or otherwise verified, as
appropriate. In the absence of publicly available information, fair value is determined using estimation techniques that take into account market
perspectives relevant to the asset or liability, in as far as they can reasonably be ascertained, based on predominantly unobservable inputs. For
derivative contracts where publicly available information is not available, fair value estimations are generally determined using models and othe r
valuation methods, the key inputs for which include future prices, volatility, price correlation, counterparty credit risk and market liquidity, a s
appropriate; for other assets and liabilities, fair value estimations are generally based on the net present value of expected future cash flows.
Share-based co mpensatio n plans
The fair value of share-based compensation expense arising from the Performance Share Plan (PSP) – Shell’s main equity-settled plan – is
estimated using a Monte Carlo option pricing model and is recognised in income from the date of grant over the vesting period with a

116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 2 continued]
corresponding increase directly in equity. The model projects and averages the results for a range of potential outcomes for the vesting
conditions, the principal assumptions for which are the share price volatility and dividend yields for Shell and four of its main competitors over the
last three years and the last 10 years. The change in the fair value of shar e-based compensation for cash-settled plans is recognised in income
with a corresponding change in liabilities.
Shares held i n trust
Shares in the Company, which are held by employee share ownership trusts and trust-like entities, are not included in assets but are reflected at
cost as a deduction from equity as shares held in trust.
Acquisitio nsa nd disposals o f interests i n ab u s iness
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed when control is obtained over a business are recognised at their fair value at the date of the acquisition;
the amount of the purchase consideration above this value is recognised as goodwill, with any non-controlling interest recognised as the
proportionate share of the identifiable net assets. The acquisition of a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary and the disposal of an interest whi le
retaining control are accounted for as transactions within equity. The difference between the purchase consideration or disposal proceeds after
tax and the relevant proportion of the non-controlling interest, measured by reference to the carrying amount of the interest’s net assets at the date
of acquisition or disposal, is recognised in retained earnings as a movement in equity attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders.
Consolidated State mento f Income prese ntatio n
Purchases reflect all costs related to the acquisition of inventories and the effects of the changes therein, and include supplies used for conversio n
into finished or intermediate products. Production and manufacturing expenses are the costs of operating, maintaining and managing
production and manufacturing assets. Selling, distribution and administrative expenses include direct and indirect costs of marketing and sellin g
products.
3 KEY ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
In order to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with IFRS, management has to make estimates and judgements. The
matters described below are considered to be the most important in underst anding the judgements that are involved in preparing these statements
and the uncertainties that could impact the amounts reported in the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Shell’s accounting
policies are described in Note 2.
Estimation of proved oil a nd gas reserves
Unit-of-production depreciation, depletion and amortisation charges are principally measured based on management’s estimates of proved
developed oil and gas reserves. Also, exploration drilling costs are capitalised pending the results of further exploration or appraisal activity,
which may take several years to complete and before any related proved reserves can be booked.
Proved reserves are estimated by reference to available geological and engineering data and only include volumes for which access to market is
assured with reasonable certainty. Estimates of proved reserves are inhere ntly imprecise, require the application of judgement and are subject to
regular revision, either upward or downward, based on new information such as from the drilling of additional wells, observation of long-term
reservoir performance under producing conditions and changes in economic factors, including product prices, contract terms or development
plans.
Changes to estimates of proved developed reser ves affect prospectively the amounts of depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged and,
consequently, the carrying amounts of exploration and production assets. It is expected, however, that in the normal course of business the
diversity of the asset portfolio will limit the effect of such revisions. The outcome of, or assessment of plans for, exploration or appraisal activit y
may result in the related capitalised exploration drilling costs being recognised in income in that period.
Information about the carrying amounts of exploration and production assets and the amounts charged to income, including depreciation,
depletion and amortisation, is presented in Note 8.
Impairmento f property, pla nta nde q u i pmenta ndi ntangible assets
For the purposes of determining whether impairment of assets has occurred, and the extent of any impairment or its reversal, the key assumptions
management uses in estimating risk-adjusted future cash flows for value-in-use measures are future oil and gas prices, expected production
volumes and refining margins appropriate to the local circumstances and environment. These assumptions and the judgements of management
that are based on them are subject to change as new information becomes available. Changes in economic conditions can also affect the rate
used to discount future cash flow estimates.
Future price assumptions tend to be stable because management does not con sider short-term increases or decreases in prices as being indicative
of long-term levels, but they are nonetheless subject to change. Expec ted production volumes, which comprise proved reserves and unproved
volumes, are used for impairment testing because management believes this to be the most appropriate indicator of expected future cash flows.
As discussed in “Estimation of proved oil and gas reserves”, reserves estimates are inherently imprecise. Furthermore, projections about unproved
volumes are based on information that is necessarily less robust than that available for mature reservoirs. Due to the nature and geographical
spread of the business activity in which those assets are used, it is typically not practicable to estimate the likelihood or extent of impairments
under different sets of assumptions. The di scount rate applied is reviewed annually.
Changes in assumptions could affect the carrying amounts of assets, and impairment charges and reversals will affect income.
Information about the carrying amounts of assets and impairments is presented in Notes 7 and 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 117
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Defined be nefit pe nsion plans
Defined benefit obligations and plan assets, and the resulting liabilities and assets that are recognised, are subject to significant volatility as
actuarial assumptions regarding future outcomes and market values change. Substantial judgement is required in determining the actuarial
assumptions, which vary for the different plans to reflect local conditions but are determined under a common process in consultation with
independent actuaries. The assumptions applied in respect of each plan are reviewed annually and adjusted where necessary to reflect changes
in experience and actuarial recommendations.
Information about the amounts reported in respect of defined benefit pension plans, assumptions applicable to the principal plans and their
sensitivity to changes are presented in Note 17.
Decommissio ninga nd restoratio n provisio ns
Provisions are recognised for the future decommissioning and restoration of hydrocarbon production facilities and pipelines at the end of their
economic lives. The estimated cost is recognised in income over the life of the proved developed reserves on a unit-of-production basis or on a
straight-line basis, as applicable. Changes in the estimates of costs to b e incurred, proved developed reserves or in the rate of production will
therefore impact income, generally over the remaining economic life of the related assets.
Estimates of the amounts of provisions recognised are based on current legal and constructive requirements, technology and price levels. Because
actual outflows can differ from estimates due to changes in laws, regulations, public expectations, technology, prices and conditions, and can
take place many years in the future, the carrying amounts of provisions ar e regularly reviewed and adjusted to take account of such changes. The
discount rate applied is reviewed annually.
Information about decommissioning and restoration provisions is presented in Note 18.
Taxatio n
Tax liabilities are recognised when it is considered probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a taxing authority. In such cases,
provision is made for the amount that is expected to be settled, where this can be reasonably estimated. This requires the application of
judgement as to the ultimate outcome, which can change over time dependi ng on facts and circumstances. A change in estimate of the likelihood
of a future outflow and/or in the expected amount to be settled would be recognised in income in the period in which the change occurs.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is considered pro bable that those assets will be recoverable. This involves an assessment
of when those assets are likely to reverse, and a judgement as to whether or not there will be sufficient taxable profits available to offset the assets
when they do reverse. This requires assumptions regarding future profitability and is therefore inherently uncertain. To the extent assumptions
regarding future profitability change, there can be an increase or decre ase in the amounts recognised in respect of deferred tax assets as well as
in the amounts recognised in income in the period in which the change occurs.
Taxation information, including charges and deferred tax assets and liabilities, is presented in Note 16.
Change in shareholdi ngi n Woodside
In 2014, Shell’s interest in Woodside Petroleum L imited (Woodside), a publicly listed company on the Australian Securities Exchange, was
reduced from 23% to 14% by a sale of shares. In the absence of other factors, a reduction below a shareholding of 20% is an indicator that
significant influence over an entity may no longer exist and that therefore the interest in Woodside should no longer be accounted for as an
associate, using the equity method, but as a financial asset measured at fai r value. However, after considering the level of Shell’s involvement in
Woodside’s financial and operating policy decisions, based on Board repre sentation and joint-venture relationships, management concluded that
Shell continues to have significant influence over Woodside and therefore should continue to account for the interest as an associate.
4 SEGMENT INFORMATION
Income information by segment is as follows:
2014 $ MILLION
Upstream Downstream Corporate Total
Revenue ando t h e rincome
Revenue
Third party 45,240 375,752 113 421,105
Inter-segment 47,059 2,294 –
Share of profit/(loss) of jointv entures and associates 5,502 965 (351) 6,116
Interest and other income 4,029 41 53 4,123
Total 431,344
CCS earnings 15,841 3,411 (156) 19,096
Other items
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation charge of which: 17,868 6,619 12 24,499
Impairment losses 3,587 3,396 – 6,983
Impairment reversals 100 251 – 351
Interest expense 953 86 765 1,804
Taxation charge/(credit) 15,277 (369) (1,324) 13,584

118 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 4 continued]
2013 $ MILLION
Upstream Downstream Corporate Total
Revenue ando t h e rincome
Revenue
Third party 47,357 403,725 153 451,235
Inter-segment 45,512 702 –
Share of profit/(loss) of jointv entures and associates 6,120 1,543 (388) 7,275
Interest and other income 659 273 157 1,089
Total 459,599
CCS earnings 12,638 3,869 372 16,879
Other items
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation charge of which: 16,949 4,421 139 21,509
Impairment losses 4,678 749 – 5,427
Impairment reversals 17 – – 17
Interest expense 910 83 649 1,642
Taxation charge/(credit) 17,803 975 (1,712) 17,066
2012 $ MILLION
Upstream Downstream Corporate Total
Revenue ando t h e rincome
Revenue
Third party 43,431 423,638 84 467,153
Inter-segment 51,119 772 –
Share of profit/(loss) of jointv entures and associates 8,001 1,240 (293) 8,948
Interest and other income 4,836 305 458 5,599
Total 481,700
CCS earnings 22,244 5,382 (203) 27,423
Other items
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation charge of which: 11,387 3,083 145 14,615
Impairment losses 980 138 3 1,121
Impairment reversals –2 4 – 2 4
Interest expense 774 89 894 1,757
Taxation charge/(credit) 23,690 1,178 (1,316) 23,552
RECONCILIATION OF TOTAL CCS EARNINGS TO INCOME FOR THE PERIOD $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Total CCS earnings 19,096 16,879 27,423
Currentc o s tof supplies adjustment:
Purchases (5,087) (525) (514)
Taxation 1,454 154 165
Share of (loss)/profit of jointv entures and associates (733) 18 (114)
Income for the period 14,730 16,526 26,960
Information by geographical area is as follows:
2014 $ MILLION
Europe
Asia,
Oceania,
Africa USA
Other
Americas Total
Third-party revenue, by origin 154,709 149,869 70,813 45,714 421,105
Intangible assets, property, planta nd
equipment, jointv entures and associates
at December 31 35,220 105,226 51,124 39,536 231,106

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 119
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2013 $ MILLION
Europe
Asia,
Oceania,
Africa USA
Other
Americas Total
Third-party revenue, by origin 175,584 157,673 72,552 45,426 451,235
Intangible assets, property, planta nd
equipment, jointv entures and associates
at December 31 35,919 101,003 51,626 42,356 230,904
2012 $ MILLION
Europe
Asia,
Oceania,
Africa USA
Other
Americas Total
Third-party revenue, by origin 184,223 156,310 91,571 35,049 467,153
Intangible assets, property, planta nd
equipment, jointv entures and associates
at December 31 31,275 91,602 51,865 40,371 215,113
5 INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME
$ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Interest income 206 194 214
Dividendi ncome( from investments in securities) 888 615 799
Net gainso n sale ofn on-current assets andb u s inesses 3,212 382 4,228
Foreign exchange (losses)/gainso nf inancing activities (195) (184) 194
Other 12 82 164
Total 4,123 1,089 5,599
Net gains on sale of non-current assets and businesses in 2014 and 2012 ar ose mainly in respect of Upstream int erests in Australia, Nigeria and
the USA.
Other net foreign exchange losses of $122 million (2013: $17 million gains; 2012: $67 mill ion losses) are included in purchases.
6 INTEREST EXPENSE
$ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Interest incurred ands imilar charges 1,517 1,330 1,251
Less: interest capitalised (757) (762) (567)
Other net losses onf air value hedges of debt 5 82 210
Accretion expense (see Note 18) 1,039 992 863
Total 1,804 1,642 1,757
The rate applied in determining the amount of int erest capitalised in 2014 was 3% (2013: 3%; 2012: 3%).
7 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
2014 $ MILLION
LNG off-take and
sales contracts Goodwill Other Total
Cost
At January 1 – 2,948 4,585 7,533
Additions 3,271 – 162 3,433
Sales, retirements and other movements – (170) 9 (161)
Currency translation differences – (66) (194) (260)
At December 31 3,271 2,712 4,562 10,545
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation,i ncludingi mpairments
At January 1 – 385 2,754 3,139
Charge for the year 278 – 386 664
Sales, retirements and other movements – (59) (128) (187)
Currency translation differences – (10) (137) (147)
At December 31 278 316 2,875 3,469
Carryinga mounta tD e c ember 31 2,993 2,396 1,687 7,076

120 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 7 continued]
2013 $ MILLION
Goodwill Other Total
Cost
At January 1 2,955 4,547 7,502
Additions 57 315 372
Sales, retirements ando t h e rmovements (3) (284) (287)
Currency translation differences (61) 7 (54)
At December 31 2,948 4,585 7,533
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation,i ncludingi mpairments
At January 1 340 2,692 3,032
Charge for the year 54 372 426
Sales, retirements ando t h e rmovements (1) (309) (310)
Currency translation differences (8) (1) (9)
At December 31 385 2,754 3,139
Carryinga mounta tD e c ember 31 2,563 1,831 4,394
Additions in 2014 mainly comprise assets acquired as a resul t of the acquisition of Repsol LNG businesses (see Note 29).
Goodwill at December 31, 2014 and 2013, principa lly relates to Pennzoil-Quaker State Compa ny, a lubricants business in the Downstream
segment based largely in North America. For impairment testing purposes, cash flow projections for this business reflected long-term growth rates
that were assumed to be equal to the average expected inflation rate for the USA (2014: 2%; 2013: 2%) and were adjusted for a variety of
risks, in particular volume and margi n deterioration. The nominal pre-tax d iscount rate applied was 6% (2013: 6%).
8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
2014 $ MILLION
Exploration andp r o d u c t i on assets Manufacturing,
supply and
distribution Other Total
Exploration
ande v a l u a t i on Production
Cost
At January 1 34,102 233,180 76,624 27,209 371,115
Additions 5,457 21,958 5,633 2,042 35,090
Sales, retirements ando t h e rmovements (8,907) (11,821) (3,544) (3,274) (27,546)
Currency translation differences (730) (8,592) (3,032) (2,106) (14,460)
At December 31 29,922 234,725 75,681 23,871 364,199
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation,i ncludingi mpairments
At January 1 4,978 121,714 38,421 14,105 179,218
Charge for the year 2,587 13,633 6,234 1,381 23,835
Sales, retirements ando t h e rmovements (3,679) (14,353) (3,323) (2,295) (23,650)
Currency translation differences (76) (4,518) (1,985) (1,097) (7,676)
At December 31 3,810 116,476 39,347 12,094 171,727
Carryinga mounta tD e c ember 31 26,112 118,249 36,334 11,777 192,472
2013 $ MILLION
Exploration andp r o d u c t i on assets Manufacturing,
supply and
distribution Other Total
Exploration
ande v a l u a t i on Production
Cost
At January 1 32,871 198,851 67,460 26,571 325,753
Additions 8,517 24,269 3,544 2,230 38,560
Sales, retirements ando t h e rmovements (6,728) 12,781 5,711 (1,374) 10,390
Currency translation differences (558) (2,721) (91) (218) (3,588)
At December 31 34,102 233,180 76,624 27,209 371,115
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation,i ncludingi mpairments
At January 1 2,110 106,130 31,613 13,607 153,460
Charge for the year 3,626 12,092 3,793 1,572 21,083
Sales, retirements ando t h e rmovements (728) 4,603 3,146 (1,047) 5,974
Currency translation differences (30) (1,111) (131) (27) (1,299)
At December 31 4,978 121,714 38,421 14,105 179,218
Carryinga mounta tD e c ember 31 29,124 111,466 38,203 13,104 191,897

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 121
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The carrying amount at December 31, 2014, includes $46,193 million ( 2013: $41,115 million) of assets unde r construction. This amount
excludes exploration and evaluation assets. T he carrying amount at December 31, 2014, also in cludes $1,412 million of assets classified as
held for sale (2013: $2,185 million).
Contractual commitments for the acquis ition of property, plant and equipment at De cember 31, 2014, amounted to $4,565 million (2013:
$6,769 million).
Exploration and production assets at Decembe r 31, 2014, include rights and concessions in r espect of proved and unproved properties of
$24,152 million (2013: $28,869 million). Expl oration and evaluation assets principally compri se rights and concessions in respect of unproved
properties and capitalised exploration drilling costs.
CARRYING AMOUNT OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT HELD UNDER FINANCE LEASES $ MILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Exploration andp r o d u c t i on assets 2,686 2,595
Manufacturing, supply and distribution 2,069 902
Other 293 374
Total 5,048 3,871
IMPAIRMENTS $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Impairment losses [A]
Exploration andp r o d u c t i on assets 3,585 4,528 940
Manufacturing, supply and distribution 3,099 305 49
Other 299 532 93
Total 6,983 5,365 1,082
Impairment reversals [A]
Exploration andp r o d u c t i on assets 100 17 –
Manufacturing, supply and distribution –– 2 3
Other 244 – 1
Total 344 17 24
[A] Presented by segment in Note 4.
In 2014, an impairment review of the refining por tfolio was carried out in response to the con tinuation of weak refining margins across the
industry, resulting in impairment charges of $2.8 billion in Downstream using a value-in-use methodology which included impairment of the full
carrying amount of the Bukom refinery in Singapore. The key assumptions made by management related to future expected refining margins,
planned improvements in operational performance, inflation rate and di scount rate. Future changes to these assumptions, in particular refining
margins, could lead to further impairments.
In response to changes to future capital expenditure plans, an impairment review of tight-gas properties in North America was also carried out,
resulting in impairment charges of $2.7 billion in Upstream in respect of a number of US properties, including Bradford, Pinedale and Slippery
Rock. The key assumptions made by management related to future disposal proceeds (where assets were in the process of being divested), long-
term oil and gas prices, drilling and development plans, inflation rate and discount rate.
In the calculation of the value in use, cash flows were adjusted for risks specific to the related assets and the nominal pre-tax discount rate applied w as 6%.
In response to the fall in oil and gas prices in the second half of 2014, mana gement reviewed Shell’s short- and long-term price assumptions. This
did not lead to any further impairments being recognised.
Impairment losses in 2013 arose principally in Upst ream in respect of the US tight-gas and liquids-r ich shale portfolio, including the Eagle Ford
and Kansas Mississippi Lime properties, cert ain of which were classified as held for sal e at December 31, 2013. Impairment losses in 2012
were driven generally by changes in development and production plans in Upstream.
CAPITALISED EXPLORATION DRILLING COSTS $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
At January 1 8,377 7,886 5,298
Additionsp endingd e t e rmination of proved reserves 4,370 5,978 6,395
Amounts charged to expense (1,881) (2,742) (990)
Reclassificationst op r o d u c t i v ew e l l son determination of proved reserves (2,116) (2,231) (2,748)
Other movements (285) (514) (69)
At December 31 8,465 8,377 7,886
Exploration drilling costs capitalised for per iods greater than one year at December 31, 2014, an alysed according to the most recent year of
activity, are presented in the table on the next pa ge. They comprise $871 million relating to 16 pro jects where drilling activities were underway
or firmly planned for the future and $3,456 million relating to 37 projects awaiting development concepts.

122 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 8 continued]
Projects Wells
Number $ MILLION Nu mber $ MILLION
Between 1a nd5y e a r s 45 4,046 195 3,520
Between 6a nd1 5y e a r s 8 281 39 807
Total 53 4,327 234 4,327
9 JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES
SHELL SHARE OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Joint
ventures Associates Total
Joint
ventures Associates Total
Joint
ventures Associates Total
Income for the period 1,813 4,303 6,116 2,541 4, 734 7,275 4,071 4,877 8,948
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the
period (90) (66) (156) 24 (191) (167) (56) (166) (222)
Comprehensive income for the period 1,723 4,237 5,960 2,565 4, 543 7,108 4,015 4,711 8,726
CARRYING AMOUNT OF INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES $ MILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Joint
ventures Associates Total
Joint
ventures Associates Total
Net assets 20,387 11,171 31,558 21,889 12,724 34,613
TRANSACTIONS WITH JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Sales andc h a r g e st oj o intv entures and associates 48,379 52,003 51,484
Purchases andc h a r g e sfrom jointv entures and associates 36,567 35,941 44,597
These transactions principally comprise sales and purchases of goods and services in the ordinary course of business. Related balances
outstanding at December 31, 2014 and 2013, are presented in Notes 11 and 15.
OTHER ARRANGEMENTS IN RESPECT OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES $ BILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Commitments to make purchases from jointv entures and associates 131.2 131.8
Commitments to provide debt or equityfundingt oj o intv entures and associates 3.7 2.3
Amounts guaranteed in respect of jointv entures and associates 1.6 2.2
10 INVESTMENTS IN SECURITIES
Investments in securities at December 31, 2014, comprise equity and debt sec urities. Equity securitie s principally comprise 15% interests in each
of Malaysia LNG Dua Sendirian Berhad and Malaysia LNG Tiga Sendirian Berhad. Debt securities comprise a portfolio required to be held by
Shell’s insurance entities as security for their activities.
Equity and debt securities carried at fair valu e totalled $3,776 million at December 31, 2014 (2013: $4,449 million), with the remainder carried at
cost. Of these, $1,383 million (2013: $1,283 million) a re measured by reference to prices in active mar kets for identical asse ts, and $2,393 million
(2013: $3,166 million) are measured by reference to predominantly unobservable inputs. Assets in the latter category, all of which are equity
securities, are measured based on expected dividend flows, adjusted for country and other risks as appropriate and discounted to their present value .
In the case of the Malaysia LNG investments referred to above, were the oil price assumption used in their valuation to be decreased by $10 per
barrel with no change in other mea surement inputs, the ir carrying amount would decrease by $228 million (2013: $354 million).
INVESTMENTS IN SECURITIES MEASURED USING PREDOMINANTLY UNOBSERVABLE INPUTS $ MILLION
2014 2013
At January 1 3,166 3,281
Losses recognised in other comprehensive income (776) (113)
Purchases 72 11
Sales (59) (16)
Currency translation differences (10) 3
At December 31 2,393 3,166

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 123
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
$ MILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
CurrentN o n-current Curre ntN o n-current
Trade receivables 28,393 – 39,094 –
Other receivables 8,968 3,738 8,315 3,032
Amounts due from jointv entures and associates 3,173 2,212 2,948 2,584
Derivative contracts (see Note 19) 14,037 703 6,445 1,772
Prepayments andd eferred charges 3,899 1,651 6,836 1,803
Total 58,470 8,304 63,638 9,191
The fair value of financial assets included above approximates the carrying amount and, other than of certain derivative contracts, is determined
from predominantly unobservable inputs.
Other receivables principally include income tax recoverable (see Not e 16), other taxes recoverable and balances due from joint arrangement
partners.
Prepayments and deferred charges at December 31, 2013, included $3,385 million in respect of th e acquisition of Repsol LNG businesses (see
Note 29).
Provisions for impairments deducted from trade and other receivables amounted to $533 million at December 31, 2014 (2013: $563 million).
OVERDUE TRADE RECEIVABLES $ MILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Overdue 1–30 days 753 1,000
Overdue 31–180 days 415 586
Overdue more than 180 days 476 541
Total 1,644 2,127
Information about offsetting, collateral and credit risk is presented in Note 19.
12 INVENTORIES
$ MILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Oil andc h emicals 17,842 28,212
Materials 1,859 1,797
Total 19,701 30,009
The cost of inventories recognised in income in 2014 includes net write-downs of $1,163 millio n (2013: $48 million net write-down reversals;
2012: $51 million net write-downs).
13 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
$ MILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Cash 5,095 4,806
Short-term bankd e p o s i t s 7,707 2,226
Money market funds, reverse repos and other cash equivalents 8,805 2,664
Total 21,607 9,696
Included in cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2014, are amo unts totalling $626 million (2013: $582 million) that are subject to
currency controls or other legal restrictions. Information about credit risk is presented in Note 19.

124 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
14 DEBT AND LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
DEBT $ MILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Debt
(excluding
finance
lease
liabilities)
Finance
lease
liabilities Total
Debt
(excluding
finance
lease
liabilities)
Finance
lease
liabilities Total
Short-term debt 1,590 – 1,590 5,042 – 5,042
Long-term debt due within 1y e a r 5,104 514 5,618 2,895 407 3,302
Currentd e b t 6,694 514 7,208 7,937 407 8,344
Non-currentd e b t 32,144 6,188 38,332 31,480 4,738 36,218
Total 38,838 6,702 45,540 39,417 5,145 44,562
NET DEBT $ MILLION
Current
debt
Non-current
debt
Cash andc a s h
equivalents
(see Note 13) Net debt
At January 1, 2014 (8,344) (36,218) 9,696 (34,866)
Cash flow 6,518 (6,875) 12,597 12,240
Other movements (5,472) 4,634 – (838)
Currency translation differences 90 127 (686) (469)
At December 31, 2014 (7,208) (38,332) 21,607 (23,933)
At January 1, 2013 (7,833) (29,921) 18,550 (19,204)
Cash flow 2,313 (7,708) (8,684) (14,079)
Settlemento f debt-related hedging derivatives (174) – – (174)
Other movements (2,791) 1,317 – (1,474)
Currency translation differences 141 94 (170) 65
At December 31, 2013 (8,344) (36,218) 9,696 (34,866)
Shell management’s financial strategy is to manage Shell’s assets and liabilities with the aim that, across the business cycle, “cash in” at least
equals “cash out” while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Gearing, calculated as net debt (total debt less cash and cash equivalents) as a percentage of total capital (net debt plus total equity), is a key
measure of Shell’s capital structure. Acros s the business cycle management aims to manag e gearing within a range of 0-30%. During 2014,
gearing ranged from 11.7% to 16.1% (2013: 9.1% to 16. 1%) and at December 31, 2014, it was 12.2% (2013: 16.1%).
GEARING $ MILLION, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Net debt 23,933 34,866
Total equity 172,786 181,148
Total capital 196,719 216,014
Gearing 12.2% 16.1%
With respect to the objective of maintaining a strong balance sheet, management prioritises the application of cash to the servicing of debt
commitments, paying dividends, investing for organic and inorganic growth and returning surplus cash to shareholders. Management’s policy is
to grow the US dollar dividend through time in line with its view of Shell’s underlying earnings and cash flow.
Shell has access to international debt capital markets via two commerc ial paper (CP) programmes, a euro medium-term note (EMTN) programme
and a US universal shelf (US shelf) registration. Issuances under the CP programmes are supported by a committed credit facility and cash.
BORROWING FACILITIES AND AMOUNTS UNDRAWN $ MILLION
Facility A mountu ndrawn
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
CP programmes 20,000 20,000 20,000 17,000
EMTN programme 25,000 25,000 12,117 18,023
US shelf registration unlimited unlimited n/a n/a
Committed credit facility 7,480 7,480 7,480 7,480

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 125
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Under the CP programmes, Shell can issue debt of up to $10 billion with maturities not exceeding 270 days and $10 billion with maturities not
exceeding 397 days. The EMTN programme is updated each year, most recently in Augu st 2014. $6,394 million was issued under this
programme in 2014 (2013: $nil). The US shelf regist ration provides Shell with the flexibility to i ssue debt securities, ordinary shares, preferred
shares and warrants. The registration i s updated every three years and was last u pdated in October 2014. During 2014, no debt (2013:
$7,750 million) was issued under the registration. The committed credit facility is available on same-day terms, at pre-agreed margins, and is due
to expire in 2019 but may, by mutual agreement, be extended for a furt her year. The terms and availabil ity are not conditional on Shell’s
financial ratios or its financial credit ratings.
In addition, other subsidiaries have access t o short-term bank facilities totalling $3,760 mi llion at December 31, 2014 (2013: $3,631 million).
Information about liquidity risk is presented in Note 19.
Interest rate swaps were entered into against certain of the fixed rate debt due to mature after more than one year, affecting the effective interest
rate on these balances (see Note 19).
The following tables compare contractual cash flows for debt excluding finance lease liabilitie s at December 31, with the carrying amount in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Contractual amounts reflect the effects o f changes in currency exchange rates ; differences from carrying amounts
reflect the effects of discounting, premiums and, where hedge accounting is applied, fair value adjustments. Interest is estimated assuming intere st
rates applicable to variable rate debt remain constant and there is no change in aggregate principal amounts of debt other than repayment at
scheduled maturity, as reflected in the table.
2014 $ MILLION
Contractual payments Difference
from
carrying
amount
Carrying
amount
Less than
1y e a r
Between
1a nd2
years
Between
2a nd3
years
Between
3a nd4
years
Between
4a nd5
years
5y e a r s
andl a t e r Total
EMTN programme – 1,519 1,823 3,039 779 5,166 12,326 752 13,078
US shelf registration 4,250 2,000 1,750 2,750 2, 000 9,750 22,500 5 22,505
Banka nd other borrowings 2,421 262 319 130 49 74 3,255 – 3,255
Total (excludingi nterest) 6,671 3,781 3,892 5,919 2, 828 14,990 38,081 757 38,838
Interest 1,107 1,076 955 833 644 7,050 11,665
2013 $ MILLION
Contractual payments Difference
from
carrying
amount
Carrying
amount
Less than
1y e a r
Between
1a nd2
years
Between
2a nd3
years
Between
3a nd4
years
Between
4a nd5
years
5y e a r s
andl a t e r Total
CP programmes 3 , 0 0 0––––– 3 , 0 0 0– 3 , 0 0 0
EMTN programme – – 1,721 2,066 3,443 – 7,230 652 7,882
US shelf registration 2,500 4,250 2,000 1,750 2, 750 11,750 25,000 72 25,072
Banka nd other borrowings 2,437 433 257 8 73 255 3,463 – 3,463
Total (excludingi nterest) 7,937 4,683 3,978 3,824 6, 266 12,005 38,693 724 39,417
Interest 1,166 1,049 982 863 736 7,084 11,880
Debt is issued under the EMTN programme and US s helf registration by Shell In ternational Finance B.V., a 100%-owned subsidiary of the
Company, and is underwritten by guarantees issued by the Company. Bank and other borrowings are raised by other subsidiaries with no
recourse beyond the immediate borrower and/or the local assets.
The fair value of debt excluding finance l ease liabilities at December 31, 2014, was $41, 120 million (2013: $40,569 million) determined
from the prices quoted for those securities.
Lease arrangements are entered into, as lessee, for: in Upstream, principally drilling and ancillary equipment, service vessels, obligations unde r
certain power generation contracts (“tolling agreements”) and LNG vessel s; in Downstream, principally tankers, storage capacity and retail sites ;
and in Corporate, principally land and buildings.

126 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 14 continued]
The future minimum lease payments for finance and operating leases and the present value of future minimum finance lease payments at
December 31, by payment date are as follows:
2014 $ MILLION
Finance leases Operati ngl e a s e s
Future
minimum
lease payments I nterest
Presentv a l u e
off uture minimum
lease payments
Future
minimum
lease payments
Less than 1y e a r 1,068 554 514 5,697
Between 1a nd5y e a r s 3,636 1,637 1,999 15,199
5y e a r sandl a t e r 6,254 2,065 4,189 9,929
Total 10,958 4,256 6,702 30,825
2013 $ MILLION
Finance leases Operati ngl e a s e s
Future
minimum
lease payments I nterest
Presentv a l u e
off uture minimum
lease payments
Future
minimum
lease payments
Less than 1y e a r 850 443 407 5,814
Between 1a nd5y e a r s 3,010 1,426 1,584 15,039
5y e a r sandl a t e r 5,079 1,925 3,154 11,688
Total 8,939 3,794 5,145 32,541
Finance lease liabilities are secured on the leased assets and include obligations under tolling agreements. The present value of the future
minimum lease payments under these agreem ents was $1,778 million at December 31, 2014 ( 2013: $1,952 million). The agreements mature
between 2021 and 2024 and the average interest r ate is 8%. Finance lease liabilities of $1,601 mi llion relating to LNG vessels were assumed
in 2014 as a result of the acquisition of Repsol LNG businesses (see Note 29).
The net present value of future minimum l ease payments for operating leases at Dec ember 31, 2014 was $28,456 million (2013: $29,871
million), discounting the payments at 2.0% (2013: 2.0%).
Future minimum lease payments at December 31, 2014, are stated before deduction of expected renta l income from non-cancellable sub-leases
of $551 million (2013: $586 million) in respect of finance leases and $172 million (2013: $236 million) in r espect of operating leases.
Operating lease expense in 2014 was $4,572 mi llion (2013: $4,056 millio n; 2012: $3,631 million).
15 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
$ MILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
CurrentN o n-current Curre ntN o n-current
Trade payables 32,131 – 41,927 –
Other payables 5,832 2,046 5,997 2,303
Amounts due to jointv entures and associates 2,702 21 3,894 22
Derivative contracts (see Note 19) 11,554 520 6,474 587
Accruals andd eferred income 12,645 995 11,820 1,153
Total 64,864 3,582 70,112 4,065
The fair value of financial liabilities included above approximates the carrying amount and, other than of certain derivative contracts, is
determined from predominantly unobservable inputs.
Other payables include balances due to joint arrangement partners and co mmitments for share repurchases undertaken on the Company’s behalf
under irrevocable, non-discretionary arrangements.
Information about offsetting, collateral and liquidity risk is presented in Note 19.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 127
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16 TAXATION
TAXATION CHARGE $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Current taxation
Charge in respect of currentp e r i o d 14,044 18,316 22,551
Adjustmenti n respect of prior periods (287) 266 171
Total 13,757 18,582 22,722
Deferred taxation
Relatingt ot h eo r i g ination andr e v e r s a lof temporary differences, tax losses andc r e d i t s (318) (1,064) 801
Relatingt oc h anges in tax rates 19 (108) 247
Adjustmenti n respect of prior periods 126 (344) (218)
Total (173) (1,516) 830
Total taxation charge 13,584 17,066 23,552
RECONCILIATION OF APPLICABLE TAX CHARGE AT STATUTORY TAX RATES TO TAXATION CHARGE $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Incomeb efore taxation 28,314 33,592 50,512
Less: share of profit of jointv entures and associates (6,116) (7,275) (8,948)
Incomeb efore taxation ands h a r eof profit of jointv entures and associates 22,198 26,317 41,564
Applicable tax charge at statutory tax rates 11,206 16,463 23,790
Adjustmenti n respect of prior periods (161) (78) (47)
Tax effects of:
Derecognition/(recognition)o f deferred tax assets 1,015 321 206
Income not subject to tax at statutory rates (1,864) (1,077) (1,369)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,271 1,134 965
Deductible items not expensed (401) (545) (562)
Taxable income not recognised 526 263 259
Other reconcilingi t ems, includinga mounts relatingt oc h anges in tax rate 992 585 310
Taxation charge 13,584 17,066 23,552
The weighted average of statutory tax rates was 50.5% in 2014 (2013: 62.6%; 2012: 57.2%). The decrease from 2013 to 2014 was due to
a change in the geographical mix of income in the Upstream segment, with a higher p roportion of income in 2014 arising in jurisdictions subject
to relatively lower tax rates, partly offset by a change in the mix of Upstream and Downstream income, with a higher proportion arising in
Upstream where tax rates are typically high er than in Downstream. The increase from 2012 to 2013 was principally due to a change in the
geographical mix of income in Upstream, with a hig her proportion of Upstream income in 2013 arising i n jurisdictions subject to relatively higher
tax rates.
The taxation charge includes not only those of general application but also taxes at higher rates levied on income from certain Upstream activities
and various other taxes to which these activities are subjected.
The adjustments in respect of prior periods relate to events in the current p eriod and reflect the effects of chang es in rules, facts or other factors
compared with those used in establishing the current tax position or deferred tax balance in prior periods.
TAXES PAYABLE $ MILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Incomet a x e s 6,396 7,085
Sales taxes, excise duties ands imilar levies and social security contributions 3,401 4,088
Total 9,797 11,173
Included in other receivables at December 31, 2014 (see Note 11) , is income tax receivable of $1, 091 million (2013: $1,008 million).

128 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 16 continued]
DEFERRED TAXATION $ MILLION
Decommissioning
and other
provisions
Losses
carried
forward
Property,
planta nd
equipment
Retirement
benefits Other Total
At January 1, 2014
Deferred tax assets 2,007 3,087 (1,551) 1,338 904 5,785
Deferred tax liabilities 6,221 5,358 (25,582) 1,725 335 (11,943)
8,228 8,445 (27,133) 3,063 1,239 (6,158)
Recognised in the period
Credited/(charged) to income 952 1,726 (2,759) (224) 478 173
Other movements 30 (536) 499 2,203 (386) 1,810
Currency translation differences (322) (319) 1,158 (282) 19 254
660 871 (1,102) 1,697 111 2,237
At December 31, 2014
Deferred tax assets 3,721 6,006 (7,194) 3,787 1,811 8,131
Deferred tax liabilities 5,167 3,310 (21,041) 973 (461) (12,052)
8,888 9,316 (28,235) 4,760 1,350 (3,921)
At January 1, 2013
Deferred tax assets 1,881 1,088 (273) 609 983 4,288
Deferred tax liabilities 5,590 3,712 (23,639) 3,958 67 (10,312)
7,471 4,800 (23,912) 4,567 1,050 (6,024)
Recognised in the period
Credited/(charged) to income 729 3,609 (3,010) 89 99 1,516
Other movements 36 73 (477) (1,573) 139 (1,802)
Currency translation differences (8) (37) 266 (20) (49) 152
757 3,645 (3,221) (1,504) 189 (134)
At December 31, 2013
Deferred tax assets 2,007 3,087 (1,551) 1,338 904 5,785
Deferred tax liabilities 6,221 5,358 (25,582) 1,725 335 (11,943)
8,228 8,445 (27,133) 3,063 1,239 (6,158)
The above deferred tax information takes into consideration offsetting balances within the same tax jurisdiction.
Other movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities principally relate to acquisitions, divestments and amounts recognised in other
comprehensive income and directly in equity (see Note 22).
Deferred tax assets that are dependent on future tax able profits, not arising from the reversal of def erred tax liabilities, are only recognised to th e
extent that it is considered probable based on business forecasts that suc h profits will be available. Recognised losses carried forward amounted
to $37,388 million at December 31, 2014 (2013: $38,448 million).
Unrecognised deductible temporar y differences, unused tax losses and credits carri ed forward amounted to $25,145 million at December 31,
2014 (2013: $17,036 million) including amounts of $21,344 million (2013: $16, 576 million) that are subject to time limits for utilisation of
five years or later or are not time limited.
Retained earnings of subsidiaries, j oint ventures and associates amounte d to $201,960 million at December 31, 2014 (2013:
$184,625 million). Provision has been made for with holding and other taxes that would become pay able on the distribution of these earnings
only to the extent that either Shell does not control the relevant entity or it is expected that these earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable futur e.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 129
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17 RETIREMENT BENEFITS
Retirement benefits are provided through a num ber of funded and unfunded defined benefit pla ns and defined contribution plans, the most
significant of which are in the Netherlands, UK and USA. Benefits comprise principally pensions; retirement healthcare and life insurance are also
provided in some countries.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT EXPENSE $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Defined benefit plans:
Current service cost, net of plan participants’ contributions 1,844 1,895 1,558
Interest expense on defined benefit obligations 3,821 3,574 3,303
Interest incomeo n plan assets (3,524) (3,030) (2,893)
Other (1,073) (6) (73)
Total 1,068 2,433 1,895
Defined contribution plans 448 416 384
Total retirementb enefit expense 1,516 2,849 2,279
Other in 2014 mainly comprises the impact of amend ments to the Dutch pension plan following regu latory changes in the Netherlands, which is
reflected in other movements in defined benefit obligations.
Retirement benefit expense is presented principally within production and manufacturing expenses and selling, distribution and administrative
expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Interest income on plan assets is calculated using the rate applied to the related defined
benefit obligations for each plan.
REMEASUREMENTS $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligations:
Due to changes in demographic assumptions (663) (261) (167)
Due to changes inf inancial assumptions (14,313) 1,446 (8,362)
Due to experience adjustments 135 (111) (250)
Total (14,841) 1,074 (8,779)
Return on plan assets in excess of interest income 6,139 4,567 5,445
Other movements (18) (284) –
Total remeasurements (8,720) 5,357 (3,334)
Experience adjustments arise from differences between the actu arial assumptions made in respect o f the year and actual outcomes.
DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS $ MILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Obligations (101,331) (93,533)
Plan assets 86,318 85,543
Net liability (15,013) (7,990)
Retirementb enefits in the Consolidated Balance Sheet:
Non-current assets 1,682 3,574
Non-current liabilities (16,318) (11,182)
Current liabilities (377) (382)
Total (15,013) (7,990)
DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS $ MILLION, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED
2014 2013
At January 1 93,533 86,326
Current service cost 1,844 1,895
Interest expense 3,821 3,574
Actuarial losses/(gains) 14,841 (1,074)
Benefit payments (3,730) (3,610)
Other movements (1,315) 4,614
Currency translation differences (7,663) 1,808
At December 31 101,331 93,533
Comprising:
Funded pension plans 91,800 84,795
Weighted average duration 18 years 17 years
Unfunded pension plans 5,016 4,357
Weighted average duration 12 years 11 years
Other unfunded plans 4,515 4,381
Weighted average duration 15 years 13 years

130 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 17 continued]
DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN ASSETS $ MILLION, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED
2014 2013
At January 1 85,543 72,935
Return on plan assets (in excess of interest income) 6,139 4,567
Interest income 3,524 3,030
Employer contributions 1,833 2,578
Plan participants’ contributions 95 91
Benefit payments (3,487) (3,403)
Other movements (344) 3,917
Currency translation differences (6,985) 1,828
At December 31 86,318 85,543
Comprising:
Quoted in active markets:
Equities 42% 39%
Debt securities 40% 36%
Other 1% 1%
Other:
Equities 6% 6%
Debt securities 2% 2%
Real estate 4% 4%
Investment funds 3% 9%
Other 1% 2%
Cash 1% 1%
Other movements in the defined benefit obligatio ns and defined benefit plan assets during 2013 prin cipally reflected the impact of the first-time
inclusion of a number of individually imma terial plans, which were excluded prior to t he adoption on January 1, 2013, of revised IAS 19
Employee Benefits .
Long-term investment strategies of plans are generally determined by the relevant pension plan trustees using a structured asset liability modelli ng
approach to define the asset mix that best meets the objectives of optimising returns within agreed risk levels while maintaining adequate funding
levels.
Employer contributions to defined benefit pension plans are set by loc al trustees based on actuarial valuations in accordance with local
regulations and are estimated to be $2 billion in 2015.
The principal assumptions applied in determining the present value of defined benefit obligations and their bases were as follows:
/H18546rates of increase in pensionable remuneration, pensions in payment and h ealthcare costs: historical experience and management’s long-term
expectation;
/H18546discount rates: prevailing long-term AA corporate bond yields, chosen to match the currency and duration of the relevant obligation; and
/H18546mortality rates: published standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned adjusted for Shell experience where statistically
significant.
The weighted averages for those assumptions and related sensitivity information at December 31 are presented below. Sensitivity information
indicates by how much the defined benefit obligations would increase or decrease if a given assumption were to increase or decrease with no
change in other assumptions.
$ MILLION, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED
Effect of usinga l t e rnative assumptions
Assumptionsu s e d I ncrease/(decrease) in defined benefit obligations
2014 2013 Ra nge of assumptions 2014 2013
Rate of increase in pensionable remuneration 5% 5% -1% to +1% (2,633) to 3,250 (2,470) to 2,847
Rate of increase in pensionsi n payment 2% 2% -1% to +1% (9,173) to 11,495 (7,703) to 9,312
Rate of increase in healthcare costs 7% 7% -1% to +1% (480) to 591 (435) to 550
Discountr a t efor pension plans 3% 4% -1% to +1% 17,816 to (13,674) 14,729 to (11,517)
Discountr a t efor healthcare plans 4% 5% -1% to +1% 723 to (571) 650 to (520)
Expected age at death for personsa g e d6 0 :
Men 87 years 87 years -1 year to +1 yea r (2,018) to 2,048 (1,764) to 1,773
Women 89 years 89 years -1 year to +1 yea r (1,258) to 1,297 (1,076) to 1,095

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 131
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18 DECOMMISSIONING AND OTHER PROVISIONS
$ MILLION
Decommissioning
and restoration Environmental Litigatio n Other Total
At January 1, 2014
Current 1,340 362 126 1,419 3,247
Non-current 17,085 979 417 1,217 19,698
18,425 1,341 543 2,636 22,945
Additional provisions 312 285 303 2,358 3,258
Amounts charged against provisions (1,175) (209) (139) (829) (2,352)
Accretion expense 971 26 16 26 1,039
Remeasurements ando t h e rmovements 4,093 (27) (49) (132) 3,885
Currency translation differences (739) (52) (27) (157) (975)
3,462 23 104 1,266 4,855
At December 31, 2014
Current 1,275 348 309 2,034 3,966
Non-current 20,612 1,016 338 1,868 23,834
21,887 1,364 647 3,902 27,800
At January 1, 2013
Current 1,356 366 390 1,109 3,221
Non-current 14,715 1,032 307 1,381 17,435
16,071 1,398 697 2,490 20,656
Additional provisions 446 191 148 617 1,402
Amounts charged against provisions (1,115) (272) (279) (575) (2,241)
Accretion expense 929 20 10 33 992
Remeasurements ando t h e rmovements 2,118 27 (17) 70 2,198
Currency translation differences (24) (23) (16) 1 (62)
2,354 (57) (154) 146 2,289
At December 31, 2013
Current 1,340 362 126 1,419 3,247
Non-current 17,085 979 417 1,217 19,698
18,425 1,341 543 2,636 22,945
The amount and timing of settlement in respect of these provisions are uncertain and dependent on various factors that are not always within
management’s control. Additional provisions are stated net of reversals of provisions recognised in previous periods.
Of the decommissioning and restoration provision at December 31, 2014, an estimated $5,304 million is expected to be utilised within one to
five years, $6,147 million within six to 10 years, and the remainder in later periods.
Reviews of estimated decommissioning and restoration costs and the di scount rate applied are carried out a nnually, which in 2014 resulted in an
increase of $4,827 million (2013: $1,426 million) i n both the provision, reported within reme asurements and other movements, and the
corresponding property, plant and equipment assets reported within sales, retirements and other movements in Note 8.
Provisions for environmental costs relate to a number of events in different locations, none of which is individually significant.
Provisions for litigation costs at De cember 31, 2014, relate to a number of cases, none of which is i ndividually significant . Further information is
presented in Note 25.
Other provisions principally comprise amounts recognised in respect of employee in- and end-of-service benefits, onerous contracts related to
divestments and redundancy costs.
19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS
Financial instruments and other derivative contracts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet comprise investments in securities (see Note 10), cash and
cash equivalents (see Note 13), debt (see Note 14) and certain amounts (including derivative contracts) reported within trade and other
receivables (see Note 11) and trade and other payables (see Note 15).
Risks
In the normal course of business, financial instruments of various kinds are used for the purposes of managing exposure to interest rate, currency
and commodity price movements.

132 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 19 continued]
Treasury standards are applicable to all subsidiaries and each subsidiar y is required to adopt a treasury policy consistent with these standards.
These policies cover: financing structure; interest rate and foreign exchange risk management; insurance; counterparty risk management; and use
of derivative instruments. Wherever possible, treasury operations are carried out through specialist regional organisations without removing fr om
each subsidiary the responsibility to formulate and implement appropriate treasury policies.
Apart from forward foreign exchange contracts to meet known commitments, the use of derivative financial instruments by most subsidiaries is not
permitted by their treasury policy.
Other than in exceptional cases, the use of external derivative instruments is confined to specialist trading and central treasury organisations th at
have appropriate skills, experience, supervision, control and reporting systems.
Shell’s operations expose it to market, credit and liquidity risk, as described below.
MARKET RISK
Market risk is the possibility that changes in interest rates, currency exc hange rates or the prices of crude oil, natural gas, LNG, refined products,
chemical feedstocks, power and envir onmental products will adversely affect the value of assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows.
Interest rate risk
Most debt is raised from central borrowing programmes. Shell’s policy continues to be to have debt principally denominated in dollars and to
maintain a largely floating interest rate exposure profile, however, the majority of the debt issued in recent years has been at fixed rates, taking
advantage of historically low interest rates av ailable in the US debt markets. As a result the ma jority of the debt portfolio at December 31, 2014,
is at fixed rates and this reduces Shell’s exposure to the dollar LIBOR interest rate, although it remains the most significant interest rate exposure .
The financing of most subsidiaries is structured on a floating-rate basis and, except in special cases, further interest rate risk management is
discouraged.
On the basis of the floating rate net debt position at December 31, 2014 (both issued and hedged), and assumi ng other factors (principally
foreign exchange rates and commodity prices) remained constant and th at no further interest rate management action was taken, an increase in
interest rates of 1% would increase pre-tax inc ome by $17 million (2013: $87 million decrease).
The carrying amounts and maturities of debt and borrowing facilities are presented in Note 14. Interest expense is presented in Note 6.
Foreign exchange risk
Many of the markets in which Shell operates are priced, directly or indirectly, in dollars. As a result, the functional currency of most Upstream
entities and those with significant cross-border business is the dollar. For Downstream entities, the local currency is typically the functional
currency. Consequently, Shell is exposed to varying levels of foreign exchange risk when an entity enters into transactions that are not
denominated in its functional currency, when foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the balance sheet date and as a
result of holding net investments in operations that are not dollar-func tional. The main currencies to which Shell is exposed are the Canadian
dollar, euro, sterling and Malaysian ringgit. Each entity has treasury policies in place that are designed to measure and manage its foreign
exchange exposures by reference to its functional currency.
Exchange rate gains and losses arise in the normal course of business from the recognition of receivables and payables and other monetary items
in currencies other than an entity’s functional currency. Currency exchange risk may also arise in connection with capital expenditure. For major
projects, an assessment is made at the final investment decision stage whether to hedge any resulting exposure.
Hedging of net investments in foreign operations or of income that arises in foreign operations that are non-dollar functional is not undertaken.
Assuming other factors (principally interest rates and commodity prices ) remained constant and that no furthe r foreign exchange risk management
action were taken, a 10% appreciation against the dollar at December 31 of the main currencies to which Shell is exposed would have the
following pre-tax effects:
$ MILLION
Increase/(decrease) in incomeI ncrease inn et assets
2014 2013 2014 2013
10% appreciation against the dollar of:
Canadian dollar (111) (55) 1,709 1,853
Euro 103 241 917 1,464
Sterling (103) (176) 887 1,023
Malaysian ringgit 288 225 263 263
The above sensitivity information is calculated by reference to carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at December 31 only. The pre-tax effect
on income arises in connection with monetary balances denominated in currencies other than an entity’s functional currency; the pre-tax effect on
net assets arises principally from the translation of assets and liabilities of entities that are not dollar-functional.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from foreign currency transactions included in income are presented in Note 5.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 133
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Price risk
Certain subsidiaries have a mandate to trade crude oil, natural gas, LN G, refined products, chemical feedstocks, power and environmental
products, and to use commodity derivatives (forwards, futures, swaps and options) as a means of managing price and timing risks arising from
this trading. In effecting these transactions, the entities concerned operate within procedures and policies designed to ensure that risks, includ ing
those relating to the default of counterparties, are managed within authorised limits.
Risk management systems are used for recording and valuing instruments. Price risk exposure i s monitored, and the acceptable level of exposure
determined, by a market risk committee. There is regular reviewing of man dated trading limits by senior management, daily monitoring of market
risk exposure using value-at-risk (VAR) techniques, daily monitoring of trading positions against limits, marking-to-fair value of trading expos ures
with a department independent of traders reviewing the market values applied. Although trading losses can and do occur, the nature of the
trading portfolio and its management are considered adequate mitigants against the risk of significant losses.
VAR techniques based on variance/covariance or Monte Carlo simulation models are used to make a statistical assessment of the market risk
arising from possible future changes in market values over a 24-hour period and within a 95% confidence level. The calculation of the range of
potential changes in fair value takes into account positions, the history of price movements and the correlation of these price movements. Each of
the models is regularly back-tested against act ual fair value movements to ensure model inte grity is maintained. With effect from 2014, the VAR
calculation for North America gas and powe r has been updated to better reflect the exposure to market risks; 2013 data is presented on a
comparable basis. All VAR ranges and year-end positions in respect of commodities traded in active markets, which are presented in the table
below, are calculated on a diversified basis in order to reflect the effect of offsetting risk within combined portfolios.
VALUE-AT-RISK (PRE-TAX) $ MILLION
2014 2013
High Low Average Year-e nd High Low Average Year-e nd
Global oil 2 3 91 5 1 4 2 91 01 6 1 6
North America gas andp o w e r 1 627 1 31 225 2
Europe gas andp o w e r 712 3 4 –2 1
CREDIT RISK
Policies are in place to ensure that wholesale sales of products are made to customers with appropriate creditworthiness. These policies include
detailed credit analysis and monitoring of trading partners and restricting large-volume trading activities to the highest-rated counterparties .C r e d i t
information is regularly shared between business and finance functions, with dedicated teams in place to quickly identify and respond to cases of
credit deterioration. Mitigation measures are defined and implemented for high-risk business partners and customers, and include shortened
payment terms, collateral or other security pos ting and vigorous collections. I n addition, policies limit the amount of credit exposure to any
individual financial institution. There are no material concentrations of credit risk, with individual customers or geographically, and there has been
no significant level of counterparty default in recent years.
Surplus cash is invested in a range of short-dated, secure and liquid instr uments including short-term bank deposits, money market funds, reverse
repos and similar instruments. The portfolio of these investments is diversified to avoid concentrating risk in any one instrument, country or
counterparty. Management monitors the investments regularly and adjusts the investment portfolio in light of new market information where
necessary to ensure credit risk is effectively diversified.
In commodity trading, counterparty credit risk is managed within a framework of credit limits with utilisation being regularly reviewed. Credit ris k
exposure is monitored and the acceptable level is determined by a cr edit committee. Credit checks are performed by a department independent
of traders, and are undertaken before contractual commitment. Where appropriate, netting arrangements, credit insurance, prepayments and
collateral are used to manage specific risks.
Shell routinely enters into offsetting, master netting and similar arrangements with trading and other counterparties to manage credit risk. Where
unconditional offsetting of outstanding balances is allowed under such arrangements and net settlement is regularly applied, the net asset or
liability is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, otherwise assets and liabilities are presented gross. These amounts, as presented net
and gross within trade and other receivables and trade and other payab les in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, were as follows:
2014 $ MILLION
Amounts offset A mounts not offset
Net amounts
Gross amounts
before offset
Amounts
offset
Net amounts
as presented
Cash collateral
received/pledged
Other offsetting
instruments
Assets:
Within trade receivables 13,964 8,982 4,982 6 119 4,857
Within derivative contracts 38,151 27,437 10,714 209 7,065 3,440
Liabilities:
Within trade payables 12,290 8,941 3,349 – 124 3,225
Within derivative contracts 35,623 26,577 9,046 158 7,036 1,852

134 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 19 continued]
2013 $ MILLION
Amounts offset A mounts not offset
Net amounts[A]
Gross amounts
before offset[A]
Amounts
offset
Net amounts
as presented[A]
Cash collateral
received/pledged
Other offsetting
instruments
Assets:
Within trade receivables 15,109 10,557 4,552 – 344 4,208
Within derivative contracts 21,166 14,866 6,300 239 3,360 2,701
Liabilities:
Within trade payables 14,541 10,526 4,015 – 349 3,666
Within derivative contracts 20,341 15,082 5,259 327 3,360 1,572
[A] Revised following a reassessment of contracts.
Amounts not offset principally relate to contracts where the intention to settle on a net basis was not clearly established at the balance sheet date.
The carrying amount of financial assets pledge d as collateral for liabilities or contingent liabi lities at December 31, 2014, and presented within
trade and other receivables, was $1,726 million (2013: $717 million). The carrying amount of collateral held at December 31, 2014, and
presented within trade and other payables, was $771 million (2013: $173 mi llion). Collateral mainly relates to initial margins held with
commodity exchanges and over-the-counter counterparty variation margins.
LIQUIDITY RISK
Liquidity risk is the risk that suitable sources of funding for Shell’s business activities may not be available. Management believes that it has acce ss
to sufficient debt funding sources (c apital markets), and to undrawn comm itted borrowing facilities to meet for eseeable requirements. Informatio n
about borrowing facilities is presented in Note 14.
Derivative co ntracts
Derivative contracts are used principally as hedging instruments, however, because hedge accounting is not always applied, movements in the
carrying amounts of derivative contracts that are recognised in income are not always matched in the same period by the recognition of the
income effects of the related hedged items.
CARRYING AMOUNTS, MATURITIES AND HEDGING
The carrying amounts of derivative contracts at December 31 (see Notes 11 and 15), designated and not designated as hedging instruments for
hedge accounting purposes, were as follows:
2014 $ MILLION
Assets Liabilities
Designated
Not
designated Total Desig nated
Not
designated Total Net
Interest rate swaps 113 – 113 – – – 113
Forward foreign exchange contracts 3 523 526 152 229 381 145
Currency swaps 116 186 302 199 – 199 103
Commodity derivatives – 13,463 13,463 – 11,110 11,110 2,353
Other contracts – 336 336 – 384 384 (48)
Total 232 14,508 14,740 351 11,723 12,074 2,666
2013 $ MILLION
Assets Liabilities
Designated
Not
designated Total Desig nated
Not
designated Total Net
Interest rate swaps 222 – 222 – – – 222
Forward foreign exchange contracts 47 283 330 12 127 139 191
Currency swaps 1,112 141 1,253 14 2 16 1,237
Commodity derivatives – 6,014 6,014 – 6,206 6,206 (192)
Other contracts – 398 398 – 700 700 (302)
Total 1,381 6,836 8,217 26 7,035 7,061 1,156
Net gains before tax on derivative contracts, excluding realised commodity contracts and those accounted for as hedges, were $6,053 million in
2014 (2013: $1,083 million as revised; 2012: $904 million net losses).
Certain contracts entered into to hedge price risk relating to forecast commodity transactions and foreign exchange risk relating to forecast capit al
expenditure were designated in cash flow hedging relationships. The net asset carrying amount of commodity derivative contracts designated as
cash flow hedging instruments of $618 million at December 31, 2014 (2013: $66 million net liability), is presen ted after the offset of related

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 135
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
margin balances maintained with exchanges. Ne t gains of $576 million (2013: $36 million net losses ) arising on these contracts, the majority of
which mature within three years, were recognis ed in other comprehensive income in 2014; a fur ther $13 million net gains (2013: $6 million net
losses) were recognised in income.
Certain interest rate and currency swaps were designated in fair value h edges, principally in respect of debt for which the carrying amount of the
related derivatives, net of accrued inter est, at December 31, 2014, was a net liability of $203 million (2013: net asset of $1,074 million).
In the course of trading operations, certain contracts are entered into for delivery of commodities that are accounted for as derivatives. The
resulting price exposures are managed by entering into related derivative contracts. These contracts are managed on a fair value basis and the
maximum exposure to liquidity risk is the undiscounted fair value of derivative liabilities.
For a minority of commodity derivatives, carrying amounts cannot be derived from quoted market prices or other observable inputs, in which case
fair value is estimated using valuation techniques such as Black-Scholes, option spread models and extrapolation using quoted spreads with
assumptions developed internally based on observable market activity.
Other contracts include certain contracts that are held to sell or purchase commodities and others containing embedded derivatives, which are
required to be recognised at fair value because of pricing or delivery conditions, even though they are only entered into to meet operational
requirements. These contracts are expected to mature between 2015 and 2025, with certain contrac ts having early termina tion rights (for either
party). Valuations are derived from quoted market prices for the next six years; thereafter, from forward gas price formulae used in similar
contracts. Future gas price assump tions are the most significant input to this model, such that a decrease at December 31, 2014, of 10% in the
projected gas price would, assu ming other inputs remained unchanged, increase pre-tax income by $83 million (2013: $181 million).
The contractual maturities of derivative liabilities at December 31 compare with their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as
follows:
2014 $ MILLION
Contractual maturities
Less
than
1y e a r
Between
1a nd2
years
Between
2a nd3
years
Between
3a nd4
years
Between
4a nd5
years
5y e a r s
and later Total Discou nting
Carryi ng
amount
Forward foreign exchange
contracts 362 34 4 – – – 400 (19) 381
Currency swaps (6) 20 71 97 129 877 1,188 (989) 199
Commodity derivatives 9,332 1,215 321 106 58 126 11,158 (48) 11,110
Other contracts 99 105 105 104 59 – 472 (88) 384
Total 9,787 1,374 501 307 246 1,003 13,218 (1,144) 12,074
2013 $ MILLION
Contractual maturities
Less
than
1y e a r
Between
1a nd2
years
Between
2a nd3
years
Between
3a nd4
years
Between
4a nd5
years
5y e a r s
and later Total Discou nting
Carrying
amount
Forward foreign exchange
contracts 105 33 2 – – – 140 (1) 139
Currency swaps 1 – – – 6 28 35 (19) 16
Commodity derivatives 4,378 1,294 326 119 49 79 6,245 (39) 6,206
Other contracts 173 168 160 154 148 83 886 (186) 700
Total 4,657 1,495 488 273 203 190 7,306 (245) 7,061
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
The net carrying amounts of derivative contracts held at December 31, categorised according to the predominant source and nature of inputs
used in determining the fair value of each contract, were as follows:
2014 $ MILLION
Prices in active markets
for identical
assets/liabilities
Other
observable
inputs
Unobservable
inputs Total
Interest rate swaps – 113 – 113
Forward foreign exchange contracts – 145 – 145
Currency swaps – 103 – 103
Commodity derivatives (6) 2,410 (51) 2,353
Other contracts 6 (359) 305 (48)
Total – 2,412 254 2,666

136 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 19 continued]
2013 $ MILLION
Prices in active markets
for identical
assets/liabilities
Other
observable
inputs
Unobservable
inputs Total
Interest rate swaps – 222 – 222
Forward foreign exchange contracts – 191 – 191
Currency swaps – 1,237 – 1,237
Commodity derivatives (9) (280) 97 (192)
Other contracts 35 36 (373) (302)
Total 26 1,406 (276) 1,156
NET CARRYING AMOUNTS OF DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS MEASURED USING PREDOMINANTLY
UNOBSERVABLE INPUTS $ MILLION
2014 2013
At January 1 (276) (219)
Net losses recognised in revenue (76) (142)
Purchases (313) (34)
Sales 264 (14)
Recategorisations( net) 687 133
Currency translation differences (32) –
At December 31 254 (276)
Included in net losses recognised in revenue for 2014 are unrealised net l osses totalling $158 million relating to assets and liabilities held at
December 31, 2014 (2013: $40 million net gains).
20 SHARE CAPITAL
ISSUED AND FULLY PAID NUMBER OF SHARES
Ordina r ys h a r e sof €0.07 each Sterlingd eferred
shares of £1 eachAB
At January 1, 2014 3,898,011,213 2, 472,839,187 50,000
Scrip dividends 64,568,758 – –
Repurchases of shares (55,277,578) (32,428,573) –
At December 31, 2014 3,907,302,393 2, 440,410,614 50,000
At January 1, 2013 3,772,388,687 2, 617,715,189 50,000
Scrip dividends 125,622,526 – –
Repurchases of shares – (144,876,002) –
At December 31, 2013 3,898,011,213 2, 472,839,187 50,000
NOMINAL VALUE $ MILLION
Ordina r ys h a r e sof €0.07 each
TotalAB
At January 1, 2014 333 209 542
Scrip dividends 6– 6
Repurchases of shares (5) (3) (8)
At December 31, 2014 334 206 540
At January 1, 2013 321 221 542
Scrip dividends 12 – 12
Repurchases of shares – (12) (12)
At December 31, 2013 333 209 542
The total nominal value of sterling deferred shares is less than $1 million.
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) on May 20, 2014, the Board was authorised to allot ordinar y shares in the Company, and to
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any s ecurity into ordinary shares in the Company, up to an aggregate nominal amount of €147 million
(representing 2,100 million ordinary shares of €0.07 each), and to list such shares or rights on any stock exchange. This authority expires at the
earlier of the close of business on August 20, 2015, and the end of the AG M to be held in 2015, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied
by the Company in a general meeting.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 137
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS AND SHARES HELD IN TRUST
SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION EXPENSE $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Equity-settled plans 517 549 798
Cash-settled plans 287 23 111
Total 804 572 909
The principal share-based employee compensation plan is the PSP. Aw ards of shares and American Depository Shares (ADSs) of the Company
under the PSP are granted upon certain conditions to eligible employees who are not members of the Executive Committee. The actual amount of
shares that may vest ranges from 0% to 200% of th e awards, depending on the outcomes of prescri bed performance conditions over a three-year
period beginning on January 1 of the award year. Shares and ADSs vest for nil consideration.
S H A R EA W A R D SU N D E RT H EP S P
Number of As h a r e s
(million)
Number of Bs h a r e s
(million)
Number of AA D S s
(million)
Weighted average
remainingc ontractual
life (years)
At January 1, 2014 30 11 9 1.0
Granted 1 243
Vested (9) (4) (3)
At December 31, 2014 33 11 9 1.0
At January 1, 2013 27 10 9 1.1
Granted 1 143
Vested (8) (3) (3)
At December 31, 2013 30 11 9 1.0
Other plans offer employees opport unities to acquire shares and ADSs of the Company or r eceive cash benefits measured by reference to the
Company’s share price. Prior to the introduc tion in 2005 of the PSP, plans were operated un der which options over shares and ADSs of the
Company were awarded to eligible employees. The options have a ran ge of expiry dates until 2016 and no additional expense to Shell arises
in connection with them.
Shell employee share ownership trusts and trust-like entities purchase the Company’s shares in the open market to meet delivery commitments
under employee share plans. At December 31, 2014, they held 23.4 mi llion A shares (2013: 37.2 million), 12.7 million B shares (2013: 15.8
million) and 8.3 million A ADSs (2013: 11.2 million).
22 OTHER RESERVES
$ MILLION
Merger
reserve
Share
premium
reserve
Capital
redemption
reserve
Share plan
reserve
Accumulated
other
comprehensive
income Total
At January 1, 2014 3,411 154 75 1,871 (7,548) (2,037)
Other comprehensive loss attributable to Royal Dutch
Shell plc shareholders –––– ( 1 2 , 182) (12,182)
Scrip dividends ( 6 ) ––– – ( 6 )
Repurchases of shares –– 8– – 8
Share-based compensation – – – (148) – (148)
At December 31, 2014 3,405 154 83 1,723 (19,730) (14,365)
At January 1, 2013 3,423 154 63 2,028 (9,420) (3,752)
Other comprehensive income attributable to Royal Dutch
Shell plc shareholders –––– 1 , 8 7 2 1 , 8 7 2
Scrip dividends (12) – – – – (12)
Repurchases of shares – – 12 – – 12
Share-based compensation – – – (157) – (157)
At December 31, 2013 3,411 154 75 1,871 (7,548) (2,037)
At January 1, 2012 3,432 154 60 1,571 (7,178) (1,961)
Other comprehensive loss attributable to Royal Dutch
Shell plc shareholders –––– ( 2 , 242) (2,242)
Scrip dividends ( 9 ) ––– – ( 9 )
Repurchases of shares –– 3– – 3
Share-based compensation – – – 457 – 457
At December 31, 2012 3,423 154 63 2,028 (9,420) (3,752)

138 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 22 continued]
The merger reserve and share premium reserve were established as a consequence of the Company becoming the single parent company of
Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and The “Shell” Transport and Trad ing Company, p.l.c., now The Shell Transport and Trading Company
Limited, in 2005. The capital redemption reserve was established in co nnection with repurcha ses of shares of the Company. The share plan
reserve is maintained in respect of equity-settled share-based compensa tion plans (see Note 21); related current and deferred taxation reflected
directly within equity increased by $5 million in 2014 (2013: $5 million decrease; 2012: $7 million decrease).
Accumulated other comprehensive income comprises the following:
2014 $ MILLION
Recognised in 2014
Jan 1 Pre-tax Tax A fter tax
Share of
jointv entures
and
associates
Non-
controlling
interest
Attributable to
Royal Dutch
Shell plc
shareholders Dec 31
Currency translation differences
Recognised in the year (4,832) (5) (4,837)
Reclassified to income (484) – (484)
Net currency translation differences (551) (5,316) (5) (5,321) (112) 53 (5,380) (5,931)
Unrealised gains/(losses) on securities
Recognised in the year (741) (12) (753)
Reclassified to income (44) – (44)
Net unrealised gains/(losses) on securities 2,929 (785) (12) (797) (20) – (817) 2,112
Cash flow hedgingg a ins/(losses)
Recognised in the year 606 (23) 583
Reclassified to income (56) 1 (55)
Net cash flow hedgingg a ins/(losses) (46) 550 (22) 528 (24) – 504 458
Retirementb enefits remeasurements (9,880) (8,720) 2,238 (6, 482) – (7) (6,489) (16,369)
Total (7,548) (14,271) 2,199 (12, 072) (156) 46 (12,182) (19,730)
2013 $ MILLION
Recognised in 2013
Jan 1 Pre-tax Tax
After
tax
Share of
jointv entures
and
associates
Non-
controlling
interest
Attributable to
Royal Dutch
Shell plc
shareholders Dec 31
Currency translation differences
Recognised in the year (2,031) 123 (1,908)
Reclassified to income (30) – (30)
Net currency translation differences 1,466 (2,061) 123 (1,938) (210) 131 (2,017) (551)
Unrealised gains/(losses) on securities
Recognised in the year (123) 3 (120)
Reclassified to income (46) – (46)
Net unrealised gains/(losses) on securities 3,075 (169) 3 (166) 19 1 (146) 2,929
Cash flow hedgingg a ins/(losses)
Recognised in the year (47) 5 (42)
Reclassified to income 227 (7) 220
Net cash flow hedgingg a ins/(losses) (248) 180 (2) 178 24 – 202 (46)
Retirementb enefits remeasurements (13,713) 5,357 (1,524) 3,833 – – 3,833 (9,880)
Total (9,420) 3,307 (1,400) 1, 907 (167) 132 1,872 (7,548)

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 139
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2012 $ MILLION
Recognised in 2012
Jan 1 Pre-tax Tax
After
tax
Share of
jointv entures
and
associates
Non-
controlling
interest
Attributable to
Royal Dutch
Shell plc
shareholders Dec 31
Currency translation differences
Recognised in the year 1,372 (10) 1,362
Reclassified to income 32 – 32
Net currency translation differences 260 1,404 (10) 1,394 (136) (52) 1,206 1,466
Unrealised gains/(losses) on securities
Recognised in the year (711) (9) (720)
Reclassified to income (96) 1 (95)
Net unrealised gains/(losses) on securities 3,946 (807) (8) (815) (56) – (871) 3,075
Cash flow hedgingg a ins/(losses)
Recognised in the year (251) 9 (242)
Reclassified to income 282 (9) 273
Net cash flow hedgingg a ins/(losses) (249) 31 -– 31 (30) – 1 (248)
Retirementb enefits remeasurements (11,135) (3,334) 756 (2,578) – – (2,578) (13,713)
Total (7,178) (2,706) 738 (1,968) (222) (52) (2,242) (9,420)
23 DIVIDENDS
INTERIM DIVIDENDS $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
As h a r e s
Cash: $1.86 per share (2013: $1.78; 2012: $1.71) 5,413 3,505 3,583
Scrip: $1.86 per share (2013: $1.78; 2012: $1.71) 1,866 3,282 2,803
Total – A shares 7,279 6,787 6,386
Bs h a r e s
Cash: $1.86 per share (2013: $1.78; 2012: $1.71) 4,031 3,693 3,807
Scrip: $1.86 per share (2013: $1.78; 2012: $1.71) 533 858 762
Total – B shares 4,564 4,551 4,569
Total 11,843 11,338 10,955
In addition, on January 29, 2015, the Directors announced a further interim dividend in re spect of 2014 of $0.47 per A share and $0.47 per
B share. The total dividend is estimated to be $2,977 million and is payable on March 20, 2015. Under the Scrip Dividend Programme, which
was cancelled with effect from the second quarter 2014 interim dividend onwards and reintroduced w ith effect from the first quarter 2015 interim
dividend onwards, shareholders can elect to receive dividends in the form of A shares.
Dividends on A shares are by default paid in euros, although holders may elect to receive dividends in sterling. Dividends on B shares are by
default paid in sterling, although holders may elect to receive dividends in euros. Dividends on ADSs are paid in dollars.
24 EARNINGS PER SHARE
2014 2013 2012
Income attributable to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders ($million) 14,874 16,371 26,712
Weighted average number of Aa nd B shares used as the basisfor determining:
Basic earnings per share 6,311,490,678 6,291, 126,326 6,261,184,755
Diluted earnings per share 6,311,605,118 6,293, 381,407 6,267,839,545
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the income attribut able to Royal Dutch Shell plc shareholders for the year by the weighted
average number of A and B shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share are based on the same income figures. The weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year is
adjusted for the number of shares related to share option plans.
Earnings per share are identical for A and B shares.

140 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
25 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND OTHER CONTINGENCIES
Pesticide litigatio n
Shell Oil Company (SOC), along with other agricultural chemical pesticide manufacturers and distributors, has been sued by public and
quasi-public water purveyors alleging responsibility for groundwater contamination caused by applications of chemical pesticides. Most of these
law suits assert various theories of strict liability and seek to recover actual damages, including water well treatment and remediation costs. All o f
the suits assert claims for punitive damages. There are approximately 30 such cases pending. Based on the claims asserted and SOC’s track
record with regard to amounts paid to resolve varying claims, management does not believe the outcome of these matters will have a material
impact on Shell, however, no assurance can be provided.
Nigeria n litigatio n
Shell subsidiaries and associates operating in Nigeria are parties to various environmental and contractual disputes. These disputes are at
different stages in litigation, including at the appellate stage, where judgements have been rendered against Shell. If taken at face value, the
aggregate amount of these judgements would be material however, the management of Shell believes tha t the outcomes of these matters will
ultimately be resolved in a manner favourable to Shell. While these ma tters are not expected to have a material impact on Shell, no assurance
can be provided.
Other
In the ordinary course of business, Shell subsidiaries are subject to a number of other loss contingencies arising from litigation and claims brought
by governmental and private parties. The operations and earnings of Shell subsidiaries continue, from time to time, to be affected to varying
degrees by political, legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments, including those relating to the protection of the environment and indigeno us
groups in the countries in which they operate. The industries in which Shell subsidiaries are engaged are also subject to physical risks of various
types. The nature and frequency of these developments and events, as well a s their effect on future operations and earnings, are unpredictable.
While these matters are not expected to have a material impact on Shell, no assurance can be provided.
26 EMPLOYEES
EMPLOYEE EXPENSE $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Remuneration 13,092 12,047 11,133
Social security contributions 944 907 789
Retirementb enefi t s( s e eN o t e1 7 ) 1,516 2,849 2,279
Share-based compensation (see Note 21) 804 572 909
Total 16,356 16,375 15,110
AVERAGE EMPLOYEE NUMBERS THOUSAND
2014 2013 2012
Upstream 33 31 26
Downstream 47 48 48
Corporate 14 13 13
Total 94 92 87
Employees working in business service centres are included in the Corporate segment.
27 DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Emoluments 24 11 14
Gainso n exercise of share options –– 4
Value of released awards under long-term incentive plans 58 3 7
Employer contributionst op ension plans 11 1
Emoluments comprise salaries and fees, annual bonuses (for the perio d for which performance is assessed) and other benefits. Emoluments in
2014 included $11 million for tax equalisation which arose mainly as a re sult of the promotion of the CEO. The value of released awards under
long-term incentive plans for the period is in res pect of the performance period ending in that y ear. In 2014, retirement benefits were accrued in
respect of qualifying services under defined benefit plans by two Directors.
In addition to the amounts presented for 2012 were te rmination and related a mounts of $6 million in respect of an Executive Director who stood
down during the year and gains of $3 million which arose on the exercise of share options after standing down.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 141
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT EXPENSE $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Short-term benefits 43 24 25
Retirementb enefits 45 5
Share-based compensation 18 23 47
Total 65 52 77
Directors and Senior Management comprise members of the Executive Committee and the Non-executive Directors of the Company.
Short-term benefits comprise salaries and fees, annual bonuses delivered in cash (for the period for which performance is assessed), other benefits
and employer social security contri butions. Short-term benefits in 2014 included tax equal isation as described on the previous page. In addition,
costs of $1 million were incurred in 2014 (2013: $6 million; 2012: $8 mill ion) in respect of additional emplo yee levies in the Netherlands.
Share-based compensation in 2012 included excep tional costs recognised in respect of an Execu tive Director who stood down during the year.
In addition to the amounts presented for 2014 we re termination and related amounts of $5 mi llion (2013: $nil; 2012: $6 million) in respect of
Directors and Senior Management who stood down during the year.
28 AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
$ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Fees in respect of the audit of the Consolidated andP a r entC ompanyF inancial
Statements, includinga u d i tof consolidation returns 55 5
Other audit fees, principally in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries 45 41 41
Total audit fees 50 46 46
Audit-related fees (for other services provided pursuantt ol e g i s l a t i on) 21 1
Fees in respect ofn on-audit services (principally for tax compliance) 11 1
Total 53 48 48
In addition, PricewaterhouseCoopers provides audit services to retiremen t benefit plans for employees of subsid iaries. Remuneration amounted to
$1 million in 2014 (2013: $1 million; 2012: $2 million).
29 ACQUISITION OF REPSOL LNG BUSINESSES OUTSIDE NORTH AMERICA
On January 1, 2014, Shell acquired from Repsol S .A. all the voting rights in Repsol LNG Port Spa in B.V., Repsol Comercializadora de Gas,
S.A., Repsol LNG T&T Ltd, LNG Shipping Operation Services Netherlands B.V., Netherlands ALNG Holding Company B.V. and Repsol GNL
Peru S.A.C., the activities of which comprise LNG operations located in Trinidad and Tobago and Peru, and related shipping and marketing. The
acquisition adds directly-managed LNG volumes to Shell’s existing portfolio. Cash consideration was $4,115 million, of which $3,385 million
was paid on December 31, 2013 (see Note 11), and $730 million in 2014.
FAIR VALUE OF NET ASSETS ACQUIRED $ MILLION
Intangible assets 3,271
Property, planta nde q u i pment 1,198
Jointv entures and associates 531
Cash and cash equivalents 329
Other assets 424
Debt (1,601)
Other liabilities (37)
Consideration paid 4,115

142 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED)
The information set out on pages 142-159 is referr ed to as “unaudited” as a means of clarifying th at it is not covered by the audit opinion of the
independent registered public accounting firm that has audited and reported on the “Consolidated Financial Statements”.
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES
Proved reserves’ estimates are calculated pursuant to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rules and the Financial Accounting
Standard Board’s Topic 932. The definitions used are in acc ordance with the SEC Rule 4-10 (a) of Regulation S-X.
We include proved reserves associated with future production that will be consumed in operations.
Proved reserves shown are net of any quantities of crude oil or natural gas that are expected to be (or could be) taken as royalties in kind. Proved
reserves outside North America include quantities that will be settled in cash. Proved reserves include certain quantities of crude oil or natural ga s
that will be produced under arrangements that involve Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in risks and rewards but do not transfer titl e
of the product to those entities.
Proved reserves cannot be measured exactly since estimation of reserves involves subjective judgement (see “Risk factors”). These estimates remai n
subject to revision and are unaudited supplementary information.
The impact of the reclassification of certain entities, consistent with the change in their accounting treatment as a result of the adoption of IFRS 11
Joint Arrangements with effect from January 1, 2013, resulted in a decrease in the Sh ell share of joint ventures and associates’ proved reserves
during 2013 and a corresponding increase in Shell s ubsidiaries’ proved reserves. These effects a re referred to as “IFRS 11 reclassification” on
pages 145,149 and 153.
PROVED RESERVES ASSURANCE PROCESS
A central group of reserves experts, who on average have around 26 y ears’ experience in the oil and gas industry, undertake the primary
assurance of the proved reserves bookings. This group of experts is part o f the Resources Assurance and Reporting (RAR) organisation within Shell.
A Vice President with 33 years’ experience in the oil and gas industry currently heads the RAR organisation. He is a member of the Society of
Petroleum Engineers and holds a diploma of Ingénieur Civil des Ponts e t Chaussées de France. The RAR organisation reports directly to an
Executive Vice President of Finance, who is a member of the Upstream Reserves Committee (URC). The URC is a multidisciplinary committee
consisting of senior representatives from the Finance, Legal, Projects & Technology and Upstream organisations. The URC reviews and endorses
all major (larger than 20 million barrels of oil equivalent) proved reserves bookings and endorses the total aggregated proved reserves. Final
approval of all proved reserves bookings remains with Shell’s Executive Committee. The Internal Audit function also provides secondary assurance
through audits of the control framework.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONCERNING PROVED RESERVES
Proved reserves can be either developed or un developed. Subsidiaries’ proved reserv es at December 31, 2014, were divided into 67%
developed and 33% undeveloped on a barrel of oil equivalent basis. For the S hell share of joint ventures and associates, the proved reserves at
December 31, 2014, were divided into 76% developed and 24% undeveloped on a barrel of oil equivalent basis.
Proved reserves are recognised und er various forms of contractual agreements. Shell’s proved reserves volumes at December 31, 2014, present
in agreements such as production-sharing contracts or other forms of economic entitlement contracts, where the Shell share of reserves can vary
with commodity prices, were 1,191 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids, and 11,984 thousand million scf of natural gas.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 143
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED)
CRUDE OIL, NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS, SYNTHETIC CRUDE OIL AND BITUMEN
Shell subsidiaries’ estimated net proved reserves of crude oil, natural gas liquids, synthetic crude oil and bitumen at the end of the year; their
share of the net proved reserves of joint ventures and associates at the e nd of the year; and the changes in such reserves during the year are set
out on pages 144-146.
Significant changes in proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil, natural gas liquids, synthetic crude oil and bitumen are
discussed below.
Proved reserves 2014-2013
SHELL SUBSIDIARIES
Europe
The net decrease of 129 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications resulted from field performance studies and development activities. The
reservoir performance analyses and updates in fields resulted in a worse performance than previously estimated in the UK and a better
performance than historically predicted in Norway.
Asia
The net increase of 120 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications resulted from field performance studies and development activities. The
reservoir performance analyses and updates in fields resulted in many r elatively small contributions from fields in Iraq, Malaysia, Oman and
Russia.
Africa
The net increase of 126 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications resulted from field performance studies and development activities. The
reservoir performance analyses and updates in fields resulted in reserves volumes increases in our operations in Egypt, Gabon and Nigeria.
USA
The net decrease of 169 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications resulted from field performance studies and development activities.
Reservoir performance analyses and updates in fields resulted in reserves volume decreases for the Mars, Stones and Ursa deep-water fields in the
Gulf of Mexico and for the Permian project. The Na Kika Coulomb deep-water field in the Gulf of Mexico benefited from a better than predicted
reservoir performance.
Canada
The net increase of 81 million barrels in synthetic crude oil revisions and re classifications resulted from field performance studies and developme nt
activities at the Athabasca Oil Sands Project’s Muskeg River and Jackpine mines.
Proved reserves 2013-2012
SHELL SUBSIDIARIES
Asia
The net increase of 205 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications resulted from field performance studies and development activities. The
reservoir performance analyses and updates in multiple fields supported continuing better performance than historically predicted in Brunei,
Malaysia, Oman and Russia.
USA
The increase of 158 million barrels in extensions and discoveries resulte d from extensions in existing deep-water and light-tight-oil operations.
Canada
The increase of 410 million barrels in improved recovery resulted from t he application of improved recovery techniques in Carmon Creek as part
of the Peace River thermal project.

144 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Crude oil, natural gas liquids, synt hetic crude oil and bitumen continued]
PROVED DEVELOPED AND UNDEVELOPED RESERVES 2014 MILLION BARRELS
Europe Asia Ocea nia A frica
North America South
AmericaUSA Ca nada Total
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
All
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 769 1,343 139 651 991 29 1,731 422 95 4,017 1,731 422 6,170
Revisionsa nd reclassifications (129) 120 2 126 (169) 3 81 17 (7) (54) 81 17 44
Improved recovery – – –9 – – – – –9 – –9
Extensionsa ndd i s c o v e r i e s – 5 1 8 18 21 – 1 13 66 – 1 67
Purchases ofm inerals in place –– ––– –– – ––– ––
Sales ofm inerals in place – – (5) (15) (30) (1) – (6) (21) (72) – (6) (78)
Production [A] (61) (162) (9) (88) (99) (8) (49) (6) (17) (444) (49) (6) (499)
At December 31 579 1,306 128 691 711 44 1,763 428 63 3,522 1,763 428 5,713
Shell share of jointv entures and
associates
At January 1 29 381 24 – – – – – 17 451 – – 451
Revisionsa nd reclassifications 2 33 – – – – – – (17) 18 – – 18
Improved recovery –– ––– –– – ––– ––
Extensionsa ndd i s c o v e r i e s – 1 ––– –– – – 1– – 1
Purchases ofm inerals in place –– ––– –– – ––– ––
Sales ofm inerals in place – – (8) – – – – – – (8) – – (8)
Production (2) (39) (4) – – – – – – (45) – – (45)
At December 31 29 376 12 – – – – – – 417 – – 417
Total 608 1,682 140 691 711 44 1,763 428 63 3,939 1,763 428 6,130
Reserves attributable to non-
controllingi nterest in Shell
subsidiaries at December 31 – – –9 – – – – –9 – –9
[A] Includes 2 million barrels consumed in operations.
PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVES 2014 MILLION BARRELS
Europe Asia Ocea nia A frica
North America South
AmericaUSA Ca nada Total
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
All
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 396 942 48 453 440 21 1,299 13 59 2,359 1,299 13 3,671
At December 31 350 947 41 534 494 26 1,273 9 51 2,443 1,273 9 3,725
Shell share of jointv entures and
associates
At January 1 22 316 23 – – – – – 15 376 – – 376
At December 31 22 222 10 – – – – – – 254 – – 254
PROVED UNDEVELOPED RESERVES 2014 MILLION BARRELS
Europe Asia Ocea nia A frica
North America South
AmericaUSA Ca nada Total
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
All
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 373 401 91 198 551 8 432 409 36 1,658 432 409 2,499
At December 31 229 359 87 157 217 18 490 419 12 1,079 490 419 1,988
Shell share of jointv entures and
associates
At January 1 7 65 1 – – – – – 2 75 – – 75
At December 31 7 154 2 – – – – – – 163 – – 163

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 145
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED)
PROVED DEVELOPED AND UNDEVELOPED RESERVES 2013 MILLION BARRELS
Europe Asia Ocea nia A frica
North America South
AmericaUSA Ca nada Total
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
All
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 769 1,191 146 688 609 33 1,763 49 69 3,505 1,763 49 5,317
IFRS 11 reclassification – 84 – – 294 – – – – 378 – – 378
Revisionsa nd reclassifications 39 205 6 38 14 (2) 16 (30) 8 308 16 (30) 294
Improved recovery – 1 – – 1 – – 410 – 2 – 410 412
Extensionsa ndd i s c o v e r i e s – 11 – 4 158 6 – – 3 182 – – 182
Purchases ofm inerals in place 24 – – – 1 – – – 23 48 – – 48
Sales ofm inerals in place – – (4) – – – – – – (4) – – (4)
Production [A] (63) (149) (9) (79) (86) (8) (48) (7) (8) (402) (48) (7) (457)
At December 31 769 1,343 139 651 991 29 1,731 422 95 4,017 1,731 422 6,170
Shell share of jointv entures and
associates
At January 1 24 515 28 – 294 – – – 18 879 – – 879
IFRS 11 reclassification – (84) – – (294) – – – – (378) – – (378)
Revisionsa nd reclassifications 7 4 7 1–––– –2 5 7– – 5 7
Improved recovery – – ––––– –––– ––
Extensionsa ndd i s c o v e r i e s – – ––––– –––– ––
Purchases ofm inerals in place – – ––––– –––– ––
Sales ofm inerals in place – – ––––– –––– ––
Production (2) (97) (5) – – – – – (3) (107) – – (107)
At December 31 29 381 24 – – – – – 17 451 – – 451
Total 798 1,724 163 651 991 29 1,731 422 112 4,468 1,731 422 6,621
Reserves attributable to non-
controllingi nterest in Shell
subsidiaries at December 31 – – – 10 – – – – – 10 – – 10
[A] Includes 2 million barrels consumed in operations.
PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVES 2013 MILLION BARRELS
Europe Asia[A] Ocea nia A frica
North America South
AmericaUSA[A] Ca nada Total
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
All
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 425 817 34 496 283 28 1,271 18 31 2,114 1,271 18 3,403
At December 31 396 942 48 453 440 21 1,299 13 59 2,359 1,299 13 3,671
Shell share of jointv entures and
associates
At January 1 23 460 19 – 217 – – – 17 736 – – 736
At December 31 22 316 23 – – – – – 15 376 – – 376
[A] As a result of the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements with effect from January 1, 2013, proved developed reserves of 81 million barrels in Asia and 217 million barrels in the USA were
reclassified during 2013 from the Shell share of joint ventures and associat es’ proved developed reserves to Shell subsidiaries’ proved developed r eserves.
PROVED UNDEVELOPED RESERVES 2013 MILLION BARRELS
Europe Asia[A] Ocea nia A frica
North America South
AmericaUSA[A] Ca nada Total
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
All
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 344 374 112 192 326 5 492 31 38 1,391 492 31 1,914
At December 31 373 401 91 198 551 8 432 409 36 1,658 432 409 2,499
Shell share of jointv entures and
associates
At January 1 1 55 9 – 77 – – – 1 143 – – 143
At December 31 7 65 1 – – – – – 2 75 – – 75
[A] As a result of the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements with effect from January 1, 2013, proved undeveloped reserves of 3 million barrels in Asia and 77 million barrels in the USA were
reclassified during 2013 from the Shell share of joint ventures and associat es’ proved undeveloped reserves to Shell subsidiaries’ proved undevelo ped reserves.

146 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Crude oil, natural gas liquids, synt hetic crude oil and bitumen continued]
PROVED DEVELOPED AND UNDEVELOPED RESERVES 2012 MILLION BARRELS
Europe Asia Ocea nia A frica
North America South
AmericaUSA Ca nada Total
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
All
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 723 1,104 175 731 532 35 1,680 55 63 3,363 1,680 55 5,098
Revisionsa nd reclassifications 24 191 5 95 80 3 131 1 12 410 131 1 542
Improved recovery –6 – – 4 – – – – 1 0– – 1 0
Extensionsa ndd i s c o v e r i e s 4 4 2 – 13 0 1 – 1 78 5 – 18 6
Purchases ofm inerals in place 56 – – – 26 – – – – 82 – – 82
Sales ofm inerals in place – – (24) (33) (6) (1) – (1) – (64) – (1) (65)
Production [A] (78) (112) (10) (106) (57) (5) (48) (7) (13) (381) (48) (7) (436)
At December 31 769 1,191 146 688 609 33 1,763 49 69 3,505 1,763 49 5,317
Shell share of jointv entures and
associates
At January 1 31 560 34 – 306 – – – 19 950 – – 950
Revisionsa nd reclassifications (5) 79 1 – 10 – – – 2 87 – – 87
Improved recovery – – – – 3 – –– – 3 –– 3
Extensionsa ndd i s c o v e r i e s – 2 –––– – – – 2 – – 2
Purchases ofm inerals in place – – –––– – – –– – ––
Sales ofm inerals in place – – ( 1 )– – – –– –( 1 ) –– ( 1 )
Production (2) (126) (6) – (25) – – – (3) (162) – – (162)
At December 31 24 515 28 – 294 – – – 18 879 – – 879
Total 793 1,706 174 688 903 33 1,763 49 87 4,384 1,763 49 6,196
Reserves attributable to non-
controllingi nterest in Shell
subsidiaries at December 31 ––– 1 6 – – – –– 1 6– – 1 6
[A] Includes 2 million barrels consumed in operations.
PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVES 2012 MILLION BARRELS
Europe Asia Ocea nia A frica
North America South
AmericaUSA Ca nada Total
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitu men
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
All
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 460 781 35 438 240 22 1,249 22 35 2,011 1,249 22 3,282
At December 31 425 817 34 496 283 28 1,271 18 31 2,114 1,271 18 3,403
Shell share of jointv entures and
associates
At January 1 30 483 21 – 202 – – – 18 754 – – 754
At December 31 23 460 19 – 217 – – – 17 736 – – 736
PROVED UNDEVELOPED RESERVES 2012 MILLION BARRELS
Europe Asia Ocea nia A frica
North America South
AmericaUSA Ca nada Total
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitu men
Oil and
NGL
Oil and
NGL
Synthetic
crude oil Bitumen
All
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 263 323 140 293 292 13 431 33 28 1,352 431 33 1,816
At December 31 344 374 112 192 326 5 492 31 38 1,391 492 31 1,914
Shell share of jointv entures and
associates
At January 1 1 77 13 – 104 – – – 1 196 – – 196
At December 31 1 55 9 – 77 – – – 1 143 – – 143

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 147
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED)
NATURAL GAS
Shell subsidiaries’ estimated net proved reserves of natural gas at the end of the year; their share of the net proved reserves of joint ventures and
associates at the end of the year; and the chan ges in such reserves during the year are set ou t on pages 148-150. Volumes are not adjusted to
standard heat content. Apart from integrated projects, volumes of gas are reported on an “as-sold” basis. The price used to calculate future
revenue and cash flows from proved gas reserves is the contract price or the 12-month average on “as-sold” volumes. Volumes associated with
integrated projects are those measured at a designated transfer point between the Upstream and Downstream portions of the integrated project.
Natural gas volumes are converted to oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.
Significant changes in natural gas proved develo ped and undeveloped reserves are discussed below.
Proved reserves 2014-2013
SHELL SUBSIDIARIES
Asia
The net increase of 630 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications resulted from field performance studies and development activities .
The reservoir performance analyses and updates in multiple fields supported continuing better performance than historically predicted in Malaysi a,
Brunei and other countries.
Oceania
The sales of minerals in place of 325 thousand million scf resulted from the divestment of Wheatstone-lago.
Africa
The net increase of 621 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications resulted from field performance studies and development activities .
The reservoir performance analyses and updates in multiple fields supported continuing better performance than historically predicted in Nigeria
and Gabon.
USA
The purchase of minerals in place of 287 thousand million scf resulted from the acquisition of Ultra. The sales of minerals in place of
578 thousand million scf resulted from the sale of our interests in Pinedale, Eagle Ford and Haynesville.
Canada
The increase of 449 thousand million scf in extensions and discoveries resulted predominantly from extensions in tight-gas operations in
Groundbirch, Fox Creek and Deep Basin East.
SHELL SHARE OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES
Asia
The net increase of 455 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications resulted from field performance studies and development activities .
The reservoir performance analyses and updates in multiple fields supported continuing better performance than historically predicted in Russia,
Brunei and other countries.
Oceania
The sales of minerals in place of 354 thousand million scf resulted from the reduction in our shareholding in Woodside Petroleum Limited
(Woodside) from 23% to 14%.
Proved reserves 2013-2012
SHELL SUBSIDIARIES
Europe
The net increase in revisions and reclassifications of 229 thousand million scf resulted from field performance studies and development activities .
The reservoir performance analyses and updates in multiple fields supported continuing better performance than historically predicted in Italy,
Norway and the UK.
Asia
The net increase of 695 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications resulted from field performance studies and development activities .
The reservoir performance analyses and updates in multiple fields supported continuing better performance than historically predicted in Malaysi a,
Philippines and Russia.
Oceania
The net increase of 778 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications resulted from field performance studies and development activities .
The reservoir performance analyses and updates in multiple fields supported continuing better performance than historically predicted in Austral ia
and New Zealand.

148 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Natural gas continued]
USA
The increase of 250 thousand million scf in extensions and discoveries r elated from extensions in existing deep-water and shale-gas and light-
tight-oil operations.
Canada
The net increase of 236 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications resulted from field performance studies and development activities .
The reservoir performance analyses and updates in multiple fields supported continuing better performance than historically predicted. The
increase of 344 thousand million scf in extensions and discoveries resulted predominantly from extensions in tight-gas, basin-centred gas and ligh t-
tight-oil operations.
SHELL SHARE OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES
Asia
The net increase of 350 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications resulted from field performance studies and development activities .
The reservoir performance analyses and updates in multiple fields suppo rted continuing better production performance in Brunei and Qatar.
PROVED DEVELOPED AND UNDEVELOPED RESERVES 2014 THOUSAND MILLION STANDARD CUBIC FEET
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 4,767 10,170 6,092 2,257 2,199 1,500 74 27,059
Revisionsa nd reclassifications 175 630 (20) 621 (46) (5) (11) 1,344
Improved recovery ––– – ––– –
Extensionsa ndd i s c o v e r i e s – 82 46 61 73 449 8 719
Purchases ofm inerals in place – – – – 287 – – 287
Sales ofm inerals in place – – (325) (10) (578) (100) (8) (1,021)
Production [A] (512) (811) (218) (308) (374) (233) (15) (2,471)
At December 31 4,430 10,071 5,575 2,621 1,561 1,611 48 25,917
Shell share of jointv entures and associates
At January 1 8,508 5,991 909 – – – 6 15,414
Revisionsa nd reclassifications (60) 455 34 – – – (6) 423
Improved recovery ––– – ––– –
Extensionsa ndd i s c o v e r i e s 62 61 1 – – – – 4 3
Purchases ofm inerals in place ––– – ––– –
Sales ofm inerals in place – – (354) – – – – (354)
Production [B] (588) (442) (97) – – – – (1,127)
At December 31 7,866 6,030 503 – – – – 14,399
Total 12,296 16,101 6,078 2,621 1,561 1,611 48 40,316
Reserves attributable to non-controllingi nterest in Shell
subsidiaries at December 31 – 3– 6 ––– 9
[A] Includes 162 thousand million standar d cubic feet consumed in operations.
[B] Includes 58 thousand million standar d cubic feet consumed in operations.
PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVES 2014 THOUSAND MILLION STANDARD CUBIC FEET
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 3,942 9,132 1,621 946 1,492 908 48 18,089
At December 31 3,774 9,114 1,398 1,162 1,275 939 42 17,704
Shell share of jointv entures and associates
At January 1 6,856 4,894 806 – – – 4 12,560
At December 31 6,386 4,501 433 – – – – 11,320
PROVED UNDEVELOPED RESERVES 2014 THOUSAND MILLION STANDARD CUBIC FEET
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 825 1,038 4,471 1,311 707 592 26 8,970
At December 31 656 957 4,177 1,459 286 672 6 8,213
Shell share of jointv entures and associates
At January 1 1,652 1,097 103 – – – 2 2,854
At December 31 1,480 1,529 70 – – – – 3,079

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 149
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED)
PROVED DEVELOPED AND UNDEVELOPED RESERVES 2013 THOUSAND MILLION STANDARD CUBIC FEET
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 5,021 10,220 5,571 2,241 2,265 1,011 95 26,424
IFRS 11 reclassification – 1 5– – 8 7–– 1 0 2
Revisionsa nd reclassifications 229 695 778 197 (4) 236 (26) 2,105
Improved recovery – – – – – 160 – 160
Extensionsa ndd i s c o v e r i e s 13 5 – 86 250 344 11 709
Purchases ofm inerals in place 38 – – – 8 – 8 54
Sales ofm inerals in place – – (55) – – – – (55)
Production [A] (534) (765) (202) (267) (407) (251) (14) (2,440)
At December 31 4,767 10,170 6,092 2,257 2,199 1,500 74 27,059
Shell share of jointv entures and associates
At January 1 9,147 6,091 1,039 – 87 – 4 16,368
IFRS 11 reclassification – (15) – – (87) – – (102)
Revisionsa nd reclassifications 92 350 (20) – – – 3 425
Improved recovery ––– – ––– –
Extensionsa ndd i s c o v e r i e s – 1 2– – ––– 1 2
Purchases ofm inerals in place ––– – ––– –
Sales ofm inerals in place ––– – ––– –
Production [B] (731) (447) (110) – – – (1) (1,289)
At December 31 8,508 5,991 909 – – – 6 15,414
Total 13,275 16,161 7,001 2,257 2,199 1,500 80 42,473
Reserves attributable to non-controllingi nterest in Shell
subsidiaries at December 31 – 6– 6 ––– 1 2
[A] Includes 153 thousand million standar d cubic feet consumed in operations.
[B] Includes 63 thousand million standar d cubic feet consumed in operations.
PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVES 2013 THOUSAND MILLION STANDARD CUBIC FEET
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia[A] Ocea nia A frica USA[A] Ca nada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 4,192 9,366 843 1,012 1,607 872 81 17,973
At December 31 3,942 9,132 1,621 946 1,492 908 48 18,089
Shell share of jointv entures and associates
At January 1 7,407 5,088 581 – 67 – 3 13,146
At December 31 6,856 4,894 806 – – – 4 12,560
[A] As a result of the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements with effect from January 1, 2013, proved developed reserves of 14 thousand million standard cubic feet in Asia and 67 thousand
million standard cubic feet in the USA were reclassified during 2013 from the S hell share of joint ventures and associates’ proved developed reserves to Shell subsidiaries’ proved developed
reserves.
PROVED UNDEVELOPED RESERVES 2013 THOUSAND MILLION STANDARD CUBIC FEET
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia[A] Ocea nia A frica USA[A] Ca nada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 829 854 4,728 1,229 658 139 14 8,451
At December 31 825 1,038 4,471 1,311 707 592 26 8,970
Shell share of jointv entures and associates
At January 1 1,740 1,003 458 – 20 – 1 3,222
At December 31 1,652 1,097 103 – – – 2 2,854
[A] As a result of the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements with effect from January 1, 2013, proved undeveloped reserves of 1 thousand million standard cubic feet in Asia and 20 thousand
million standard cubic feet in the USA were reclassified during 2013 from the S hell share of joint ventures and associates’ proved undeveloped reserv es to Shell subsidiaries’ proved undeveloped
reserves.

150 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Natural gas continued]
PROVED DEVELOPED AND UNDEVELOPED RESERVES 2012 THOUSAND MILLION STANDARD CUBIC FEET
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 5,498 10,691 5,952 2,800 3,196 2,045 104 30,286
Revisionsa nd reclassifications 14 160 136 (142) (1,076) (683) 8 (1,583)
Improved recovery ––– – 1 6–– 1 6
Extensionsa ndd i s c o v e r i e s 68 – – 89 393 84 4 638
Purchases ofm inerals in place 22 – – – 139 – – 161
Sales ofm inerals in place – – (303) (163) (6) (191) – (663)
Production [A] (581) (631) (214) (343) (397) (244) (21) (2,431)
At December 31 5,021 10,220 5,571 2,241 2,265 1,011 95 26,424
Shell share of jointv entures and associates
At January 1 9,903 6,262 1,142 – 63 – 6 17,376
Revisionsa nd reclassifications (89) 284 15 – 31 – (1) 240
Improved recovery ––– – ––– –
Extensionsa ndd i s c o v e r i e s 3 2 6– – ––– 2 9
Purchases ofm inerals in place ––– – ––– –
Sales ofm inerals in place – – (21) – – – – (21)
Production [B] (670) (481) (97) – (7) – (1) (1,256)
At December 31 9,147 6,091 1,039 – 87 – 4 16,368
Total 14,168 16,311 6,610 2,241 2,352 1,011 99 42,792
Reserves attributable to non-controllingi nterest in Shell
subsidiaries at December 31 – 6– 7 ––– 1 3
[A] Includes 161 thousand million standar d cubic feet consumed in operations.
[B] Includes 60 thousand million standar d cubic feet consumed in operations.
PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVES 2012 THOUSAND MILLION STANDARD CUBIC FEET
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 4,685 9,379 839 1,112 1,506 951 92 18,564
At December 31 4,192 9,366 843 1,012 1,607 872 81 17,973
Shell share of jointv entures and associates
At January 1 7,837 4,936 241 – 46 – 5 13,065
At December 31 7,407 5,088 581 – 67 – 3 13,146
PROVED UNDEVELOPED RESERVES 2012 THOUSAND MILLION STANDARD CUBIC FEET
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 813 1,312 5,113 1,688 1,690 1,094 12 11,722
At December 31 829 854 4,728 1,229 658 139 14 8,451
Shell share of jointv entures and associates
At January 1 2,066 1,326 901 – 17 – 1 4,311
At December 31 1,740 1,003 458 – 20 – 1 3,222

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 151
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED)
STANDARDISED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE CASH FLOWS
The SEC’s Form 20-F requires the disclosure of a standardised measure of discounted future cash flows, relating to proved reserves’ quantities and
based on a 12-month unweighted arithmetic average sales price, calculat ed on a first-day-of-the-month basis, with cost factors based on those at
the end of each year, currently enacted tax rates and a 10% annual discount factor. In our view, the information so calculated does not provide a
reliable measure of future cash flows from proved reserves, nor does it permit a realistic comparison to be made of one entity with another
because the assumptions used cannot reflect the varying circumstances within each entity. In add ition, a substantial but unknown proportion of
future real cash flows from oil and gas production activities is expected to derive from reserves which have already been discovered, but which
cannot yet be regarded as proved. As a result of the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements , the discounted future cash flows of certain entities in
Asia and the USA which were previously presented under the Shell share o f joint ventures and associates are presented under Shell subsidiaries
with effect from 2013.
Standardised measure o f discou nted future cash flows relati ng to proved reserves at Dece mber 31
2014 – SHELL SUBSIDIARIES $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Future cash inflows 94,201 154,314 59,407 77,122 72,537 190,183 5,573 653,337
Future production costs 37,786 36,742 14,296 29,978 42,784 100,074 3,173 264,833
Future development costs 14,154 15,729 12,629 7,214 15,584 33,495 1,450 100,255
Future tax expenses 25,692 43,303 6,607 25,207 5,299 14,730 778 121,616
Future net cash flows 16,569 58,540 25,875 14,723 8,870 41,884 172 166,633
Effect of discountingc a s hflows at 10% 5,493 27,974 14,997 4,825 1,583 33,365 (231) 88,006
Standardised measure of discounted future net
cash flows 11,076 30,566 10,878 9,898 7,287 8,519 403 78,627
Non-controllingi nterest included – (5) – 59 – – – 54
2014 – SHELL SHARE OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia[A] A frica USA Ca nada Total
Future cash inflows 60,397 92,756 11,370 – – – – 164,523
Future production costs 42,656 37,961 3,021 – – – – 83,638
Future development costs 1,631 10,089 2,580 – – – – 14,300
Future tax expenses 6,005 16,368 1,708 – – – – 24,081
Future net cash flows 10,105 28,338 4,061 – – – – 42,504
Effect of discountingc a s hflows at 10% 4,953 12,218 1,989 – – – – 19,160
Standardised measure of discounted future net
cash flows 5,152 16,120 2,072 – – – – 23,344
[A] Includes Shell’s 14% share of Woodside as from June 2014 (previously: 23%), a publicly listed company on the Australian Securities Exchange. We ha ve limited access to data; accordingly,
the numbers are estimated.

152 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Standardised measure of discounted future cash flows continued]
2013 – SHELL SUBSIDIARIES $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Future cash inflows 129,740 162,149 67,288 77,958 103,657 180,827 9,025 730,644
Future production costs 45,084 35,001 15,304 27,452 56,457 93,964 4,698 277,960
Future developmentc o s t s 17,186 14,259 17,863 8,473 24,653 27,806 1,285 111,525
Future tax expenses 42,490 46,960 7,271 25,774 8,397 15,214 1,291 147,397
Future net cash flows 24,980 65,929 26,850 16,259 14,150 43,843 1,751 193,762
Effect of discountingc a s hflows at 10% 9,145 30,238 18,838 5,460 4,768 34,056 (42) 102,463
Standardised measure of discounted future net
cash flows 15,835 35,691 8,012 10,799 9,382 9,787 1,793 91,299
Non-controllingi nterest included – 5 – 188 – – – 193
2013 – SHELL SHARE OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia[A] A frica USA Ca nada Total
Future cash inflows 73,876 94,675 13,572 – – – 1,682 183,805
Future production costs 55,680 41,504 3,040 – – – 696 100,920
Future developmentc o s t s 1,751 8,517 3,744 – – – 55 14,067
Future tax expenses 6,203 17,286 2,004 – – – 494 25,987
Future net cash flows 10,242 27,368 4,784 – – – 437 42,831
Effect of discountingc a s hflows at 10% 4,097 11,669 1,753 – – – 132 17,651
Standardised measure of discounted future net
cash flows 6,145 15,699 3,031 – – – 305 25,180
[A] Includes Shell’s 23% share of Woodside, a publicly listed company on the Australian Securities Exchange. We have limited access to data; accordin gly, the numbers are estimated.
2012 – SHELL SUBSIDIARIES $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Future cash inflows 129,581 154,672 65,144 82,382 65,975 150,393 6,942 655,089
Future production costs 40,891 30,819 14,800 20,830 36,543 81,516 3,459 228,858
Future developmentc o s t s 18,717 13,151 21,943 7,350 15,708 17,573 1,836 96,278
Future tax expenses 43,997 47,301 7,436 33,954 4,832 13,298 721 151,539
Future net cash flows 25,976 63,401 20,965 20,248 8,892 38,006 926 178,414
Effect of discountingc a s hflows at 10% 10,620 28,859 16,586 5,833 3,909 27,331 198 93,336
Standardised measure of discounted future net
cash flows 15,356 34,542 4,379 14,415 4,983 10,675 728 85,078
Non-controllingi nterest included – 8 – 281 – – – 289
2012 – SHELL SHARE OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia[A] A frica USA Ca nada Total
Future cash inflows 82,091 102,607 15,814 – 31,479 – 1,867 233,858
Future production costs 57,542 47,685 3,710 – 9,434 – 827 119,198
Future developmentc o s t s 1,817 7,082 4,188 – 4,087 – 71 17,245
Future tax expenses 8,894 19,740 2,399 – 6,846 – 520 38,399
Future net cash flows 13,838 28,100 5,517 – 11,112 – 449 59,016
Effect of discountingc a s hflows at 10% 6,277 11,737 2,169 – 4,854 – 133 25,170
Standardised measure of discounted future net
cash flows 7,561 16,363 3,348 – 6,258 – 316 33,846
[A] Includes Shell’s 23% share of Woodside as from April 2012 (previously: 24%), a publicly listed company on the Australian Securities Exchange. We h ave limited access to data; accordingly,
the numbers are estimated.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 153
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED)
Change in standardised measure o f discou nted future net cash flows relati ng to proved reserves
2014 $ MILLION
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share
of jointv entures
and associates Total
At January 1 91,299 25,180 116,479
Net changes in prices andp r o d u c t i on costs (22,475) 1,025 (21,450)
Revisionso f previous reserves estimates 6,451 (28) 6,423
Extensions, discoveries andi mproved recovery 2,837 191 3,028
Purchases ands a l e sofm inerals in place (2,551) (1,497) (4,048)
Developmentc o s tr e l a t e dt ofuture production (9,372) (1,362) (10,734)
Sales andt r ansfers of oil andg a s ,net of production costs (40,495) (7,401) (47,896)
Developmentc o s tincurred duringt h ey e a r 22,619 1,350 23,969
Accretion of discount 16,367 3,670 20,037
Net change in incomet a x 13,947 2,216 16,163
At December 31 78,627 23,344 101,971
2013 $ MILLION
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share
of jointv entures
and associates Total
At January 1 85,078 33,846 118,924
IFRS 11 reclassification 6,884 (6,884) –
Net changes in prices andp r o d u c t i on costs (7,375) 1,636 (5,739)
Revisionso f previous reserves estimates 11,142 1,984 13,126
Extensions, discoveries andi mproved recovery 8,744 – 8,744
Purchases ands a l e sofm inerals in place 1,145 – 1,145
Developmentc o s tr e l a t e dt ofuture production (24,747) (1,275) (26,022)
Sales andt r ansfers of oil andg a s ,net of production costs (40,244) (13,891) (54,135)
Developmentc o s tincurred duringt h ey e a r 24,816 1,620 26,436
Accretion of discount 17,273 3,883 21,156
Net change in incomet a x 8,583 4,261 12,844
At December 31 91,299 25,180 116,479
2012 $ MILLION
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share
of jointv entures
and associates Total
At January 1 86,018 35,166 121,184
Net changes in prices andp r o d u c t i on costs (4,631) 6,166 1,535
Revisionso f previous reserves estimates 16,755 2,696 19,451
Extensions, discoveries andi mproved recovery 3,859 299 4,158
Purchases ands a l e sofm inerals in place (1,821) (91) (1,912)
Developmentc o s tr e l a t e dt ofuture production (12,179) (2,971) (15,150)
Sales andt r ansfers of oil andg a s ,net of production costs (43,000) (16,139) (59,139)
Developmentc o s tincurred duringt h ey e a r 19,559 2,288 21,847
Accretion of discount 16,570 5,130 21,700
Net change in incomet a x 3,948 1,302 5,250
At December 31 85,078 33,846 118,924

154 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES CAPITALISED COSTS
The aggregate amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets relating to oil and gas exploration and production activities, and
the aggregate amount of the related depreciation, depletion and amortisation at December 31, are shown in the tables below.
Shell subsidiaries
$ MILLION
2014 2013
Cost
Proved properties [A] 228,532 225,754
Unproved properties 30,161 34,282
Support equipmenta nd facilities 6,325 6,053
265,018 266,089
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation
Proved properties [A] 113,943 117,709
Unproved properties 3,867 5,019
Support equipmenta nd facilities 2,741 2,752
120,551 125,480
Net capitalised costs 144,467 140,609
[A] Includes capitalised asset decommissioning a nd restoration costs and related depreciation.
Shell share o f jointv entures a nd associates
$ MILLION
2014 2013
Cost
Proved properties [A] 42,524 43,378
Unproved properties 3,504 3,693
Support equipmenta nd facilities 3,596 3,254
49,624 50,325
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation
Proved properties [A] 22,916 23,468
Unproved properties 78 108
Support equipmenta nd facilities 1,834 1,707
24,828 25,283
Net capitalised costs 24,796 25,042
[A] Includes capitalised asset decommissioning a nd restoration costs and related depreciation.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 155
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED)
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES COSTS INCURRED
Costs incurred during the year in oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development activities, whether capitalised or charged to
income currently, are shown in the tables below. Development costs include capitalised asset decommissioning and restoration costs and exclude
costs of acquiring support equipment and facilities, but include depreciation thereon. As a result of the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements ,
the costs incurred by certain entities in Asia and the USA, which were previously presented under the Shell share of joint ventures and associates,
are presented under Shell sub sidiaries with effect from 2013.
Shell subsidiaries
2014 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope[A] Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Acquisition of properties
Proved 2 57 – 132 36 – 10 237
Unproved – 97 – 221 401 37 136 892
Exploration 680 1,339 415 254 2,546 851 717 6,802
Development 5,139 3,189 5,111 2,717 6,482 2,437 409 25,484
[A] Includes Greenland.
2013 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope[A] Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Acquisition of properties
Proved 290 20 – 1 51 – 684 1,046
Unproved 29 168 9 62 416 293 1,364 2,341
Exploration 752 1,493 448 504 3,496 1,400 592 8,685
Development 4,309 3,225 5,720 2,293 5,314 1,742 830 23,433
[A] Includes Greenland.
2012 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope[A] Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Acquisition of properties
Proved 387 – – – 567 1 – 955
Unproved 16 148 1,769 96 2,610 381 152 5,172
Exploration 472 867 352 559 4,898 1,058 479 8,685
Development 3,080 2,773 4,901 1,733 3,621 2,113 354 18,575
[A] Includes Greenland.
Shell share o f jointv entures a nd associates
Joint ventures and associates did not incur costs in the acquisition of oil and gas properties in 2014, 2013 or 2012.
2014 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Exploration 18 181 162 – – – – 361
Development 220 3,430 143 – – – – 3,793
2013 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Exploration 42 272 321 – – – 13 648
Development 169 2,545 293 – – – 23 3,030
2012 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Exploration 38 323 103 – 10 – – 474
Development 209 2,217 549 – 405 – 34 3,414

156 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES EARNINGS
The results of operations for oil and gas producing activities are shown in the tables below. As a result of the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint
Arrangements , the earnings of certain entities in Asia and the USA, which were previously presented under the Shell share of joint ventures and
associates, are presented under Sh ell subsidiaries with effect from 2013.
Shell subsidiaries
2014 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope[A] Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Revenue
Third parties 2,808 4,914 1,867 3,004 1,078 202 126 13,999
Sales between businesses 7,869 13,973 990 6,516 9, 903 7,399 1,376 48,026
Total 10,677 18,887 2,857 9,520 10,981 7,601 1,502 62,025
Production costs excludingt a x e s 2,831 2,282 599 2,032 3,440 3,367 482 15,033
Taxes other than incomet a x[ B ] 264 948 216 836 198 – 165 2,627
Exploration 457 1,331 232 307 1,549 88 260 4,224
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation 1,772 3,341 427 2,037 6,576 1,709 475 16,337
Other costs/(income) 766 2,058 (2,123) 129 845 2,137 78 3,890
Earnings before taxation 4,587 8,927 3,506 4,179 (1,627) 300 42 19,914
Taxation charge/(credit) 3,362 6,800 2,113 2,404 (654) 60 157 14,242
Earnings after taxation 1,225 2,127 1,393 1,775 (973) 240 (115) 5,672
[A] Includes Greenland.
[B] Includes cash-paid royalties to governments outside North America.
2013 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope[A] Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Revenue
Third parties 4,116 5,535 1,982 2,690 3,416 52 64 17,855
Sales between businesses 8,420 17,538 1,038 6,873 7,232 7,354 684 49,139
Total 12,536 23,073 3,020 9,563 10,648 7,406 748 66,994
Production costs excludingt a x e s 2,656 1,762 481 1,753 3, 336 3,303[B] 378 13,669[B]
Taxes other than incomet a x[ C ] 328 1,254 231 963 223 – 85 3,084
Exploration 627 1,082 396 354 1,790 312 717 5,278
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation 1,400 2,268 423 1,276 7,858 2,366 160 15,751
Other costs 1,052 3,713 40 419 1,395 2,129[B] 124 8,872[B]
Earnings before taxation 6,473 12,994 1,449 4,798 (3,954) (704) (716) 20,340
Taxation charge/(credit) 4,843 10,251 486 3,093 (1,461) (231) 71 17,052
Earnings after taxation 1,630 2,743 963 1,705 (2,493) (473) (787) 3,288
[A] Includes Greenland.
[B] Reflects the reclassification of certain costs.
[C] Includes cash-paid royalties to governments outside North America.
2012 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope[A] Asia Ocea nia A frica USA Ca nada Total
Revenue
Third parties 4,705 3,981 1,941 2,807 3,573 207 23 17,237
Sales between businesses 10,275 16,450 1,129 10,364 3,906 6,443 1,431 49,998
Total 14,980 20,431 3,070 13,171 7,479 6,650 1,454 67,235
Production costs excludingt a x e s 2,516 1,582 395 1,540 2, 486 3,130[B] 255 11,904[B]
Taxes other than incomet a x[ C ] 350 410 322 1,248 39 – 145 2,514
Exploration 398 461 175 699 801 372 198 3,104
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation 1,531 1,222 304 1,261 3,837 2,037 315 10,507
Other costs/(income) 1,420 3,157 (1,769) (322) 421 1,963[B] 63 4,933[B]
Earnings before taxation 8,765 13,599 3,643 8,745 (105) (852) 478 34,273
Taxation charge/(credit) 6,310 10,733 1,104 5,358 (65) (413) 137 23,164
Earnings after taxation 2,455 2,866 2,539 3,387 (40) (439) 341 11,109
[A] Includes Greenland.
[B] Reflects the reclassification of certain costs.
[C] Includes cash-paid royalties to governments outside North America.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 157
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED)
Shell share o f jointv entures a nd associates
2014 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia[A] A frica USA Ca nada Total
Third party revenue 4,966 8,811 1,292 – – – – 15,069
Total 4,966 8,811 1,292 – – – – 15,069
Production costs excludingt a x e s 434 829 272 – – – – 1,535
Taxes other than incomet a x[ B ] 2,634 2,518 24 – – – – 5,176
Exploration 22 83 66 – – – 18 189
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation 198 1,117 373 – – – – 1,688
Other costs/(income) (6) 643 96 – – – 258 991
Earnings before taxation 1,684 3,621 461 – – – (276) 5,490
Taxation charge 608 1,256 190 – – – – 2,054
Earnings after taxation 1,076 2,365 271 – – – (276) 3,436
[A] Includes Shell’s 14% share of Woodside as from June 2014 (previously: 23%), a publicly listed company on the Australian Securities Exchange. We ha ve limited access to data; accordingly,
the numbers are estimated.
[B] Includes cash-paid royalties to governments outside North America.
2013 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia[A] A frica USA Ca nada Total
Third party revenue 6,825 11,040 1,334 – – – 313 19,512
Total 6,825 11,040 1,334 – – – 313 19,512
Production costs excludingt a x e s 451 958 291 – – – 58 1,758
Taxes other than incomet a x[ B ] 3,989 3,907 58 – – – 86 8,040
Exploration 16 162 165 – – – 13 356
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation 188 1,335 578 – – – 37 2,138
Other costs/(income) (151) 694 310 – – – 40 893
Earnings before taxation 2,332 3,984 (68) – – – 79 6,327
Taxation charge/(credit) 879 1,655 (185) – – – 93 2,442
Earnings after taxation 1,453 2,329 117 – – – (14) 3,885
[A] Includes Shell’s 23% share of Woodside, a publicly listed company on the Australian Securities Exchange. We have limited access to data; accordin gly, the numbers are estimated.
[B] Includes cash-paid royalties to governments outside North America.
2012 $ MILLION
North America South
AmericaEurope Asia Ocea nia[A] A frica USA Ca nada Total
Third party revenue 6,448 12,592 1,441 – 2,715 – 341 23,537
Total 6,448 12,592 1,441 – 2,715 – 341 23,537
Production costs excludingt a x e s 411 952 372 – 453 – 41 2,229
Taxes other than incomet a x[ B ] 3,574 4,861 111 – 157 – 118 8,821
Exploration 17 391 155 – 10 – – 573
Depreciation,d e p l e t i on anda mortisation 209 1,310 335 – 269 – 41 2,164
Other costs/(income) (390) 128 (80) – 13 – 252 (77)
Earnings before taxation 2,627 4,950 548 – 1,813 – (111) 9,827
Taxation charge 969 1,971 136 – 658 – 26 3,760
Earnings after taxation 1,658 2,979 412 – 1,155 – (137) 6,067
[A] Includes Shell’s 23% share of Woodside as from April 2012 (previously: 24%), a publicly listed company on the Australian Securities Exchange. We h ave limited access to data; accordingly,
the numbers are estimated.
[B] Includes cash-paid royalties to governments outside North America.

158 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED) SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
ACREAGE AND WELLS
The tables below reflect acreage and wells of Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. The term “gross” refers to the total activity in whic h
Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates have an interest. The term “net” refers to the sum of the fractional interests owned by Shell
subsidiaries plus the Shell share of joint ventures and associates’ fractional interests. Net data below are rounded to the nearest whole number.
OIL AND GAS ACREAGE (AT DECEMBER 31) THOUSAND ACRES
2014 2013 2012
Developed U ndeveloped Developed U ndeveloped Developed U ndeveloped
Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
Europe [A] 9,603 2,693 16,161 8,563 9,614 2,698 15,978 6,225 9,091 2,659 10,937 4,196
Asia 25,724 9,252 46,487 25,155 26,349 9,275 56,373 27,791 26,989 9,400 53,460 26,604
Oceania 1,657 433 71,941 25,992 1,659 466 74, 055 29,811 1,703 467 70,575 26,469
Africa 5,174 2,232 39,297 26,409 5,217 2,245 37,811 24,553 5,428 2,299 45,315 30,916
North America – USA 1,635 1,131 6,133 5,047 1,901 1,213 8,432 6,613 1,837 1,176 8,878 6,990
North America – Canada 1,132 748 33,094 27,223 1,259 832 33, 307 28,677 1,181 785 31,086 25,117
South America 100 52 8,637 4,081 162 89 15, 116 7,210 162 76 17,242 9,668
Total 45,025 16,541 221,750 122,470 46,161 16,818 241,072 130,880 46,391 16,862 237,493 129,960
[A] Includes Greenland.
NUMBER OF PRODUCTIVE WELLS [A] (AT DECEMBER 31)
2014 2013 2012
Oil Gas Oil Gas Oil Gas
Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
Europe 1,269 333 1,311 410 1,315 349 1,295 411 1,431 425 1,266 398
Asia 7,529 2,643 353 198 8,187 2, 578 340 192 7,392 2,345 248 118
Oceania 44 3 625 235 44 5 655 244 48 5 574 217
Africa 891 352 116 79 920 351 109 71 837 324 95 62
North America – USA 15,313 7,760 2,555 1,849 15,347 8,150 4,316 2,878 15,108 7,630 4,618 2,808
North America – Canada 325 320 1,125 878 337 331 1,238 949 460 393 1,165 880
South America 25 15 7 2 74 31 7 2 73 29 7 2
Total 25,396 11,426 6,092 3,651 26,224 11,795 7,960 4,747 25,349 11,151 7,973 4,485
[A] The number of productive wells with multiple completions (more than one formation producing into the same well bore) at December 31, 2014, was 1,81 5 gross (763 net); 2013: 2,200
gross (805 net); 2012: 1,918 gross (694 net).
NUMBER OF NET PRODUCTIVE WELLS AND DRY HOLES DRILLED
2014 2013 2012
Productive Dry Productive Dry Productive Dry
Exploratory [A]
Europe 121 31 1
Asia 21 0 2 9 3 4
Oceania –1– 1 – 1
Africa 446 33 7
North America – USA 53 89 173[B] 33[B] 127[B] 11[B]
North America – Canada 39 2 17[C] 2 37 9
South America –1– 5 – 1
Total 99 109[D] 199 56 171 34
Development
Europe 816 29 –
Asia 243 9 218 6 255 4
Oceania 61 1 2 –7 –
Africa 25 2 25 – 25 –
North America – USA 392 3 447 2 352 –
North America – Canada 22 – 57 1 49 2
South America 3– 4 –1 –
Total 699 16 769 11 698 6
[A] Productive wells are wells with proved reserves allocated. Explorator y wells in the process of drilling are excluded and presented separately on page 159.
[B] The number of net productive wells and dry holes drilled has been correct ed from 175 and 34 respectively in 2013 an d from 124 and 3 respectively in 201 2.
[C] The number of net productive wells has been corrected from 16.
[D] Includes 50 net exploratory wells sold in North and South America.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 159
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION – OIL AND GAS (UNAUDITED)
NUMBER OF WELLS IN THE PROCESS OF EXPLORATORY DRILLING [A] 2014
At January 1
Wells in the process of
drillinga tJ anuary 1 and
allocated proved
reserves duringt h ey e a r
Wells in the process of
drillinga tJ anuary 1 and
determined as dry during
the year
New wells in the process
of drillinga tD e c ember 31 At Dece mber 31
Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
Europe 27 9 (2) (1) (3) (2) 5 2 27 8
Asia 105[B] 65[B] (1) (1) (17) (16) 35 15 122 63
Oceania 526 182[C] – – (1) – 23 10 548 192
Africa 36 19 (9) (6) (4) (2) 4 2 27 13
North America – USA 255[D] 220[D] (51) (36) (116) (103) 55 32 143 113
North America – Canada 231 211[C] (113) (99) (12) (11) 81 69 187 170
South America 20[B] 12[B] (2) (1) (5) (2) 8 5 21 14
Total 1,200 718 (178) (144) (158) (136) 211 135 1,075 573
[A] Wells in the process of drilling inclu des exploratory wells temporarily suspended.
[B] Corrected from 103 gross (63 net) for Asia and 16 gross (9 net) for South America.
[C] Amended from 186 and 210 for Oceania and Canada respectively to r eflect Shell’s working interest effective from January 1, 2014.
[D] Gross reduced from 256 due to a correction and net reduced from 221 due to t he combined effect of this correction and a change in Shell’s working inter est effective from January 1, 2014.
NUMBER OF WELLS IN THE PROCESS OF DEVELOPMENT DRILLING [A] 2014
At January 1 At Dece mber 31
Gross Net Gross Net
Europe 13 3 13 3
Asia 56 18 60 18
Oceania 27 10 19 9
Africa 95 1 0 5
North America – USA 175 102 47 37
North America – Canada 8 6 11 11
South America 86 ––
Total 296 150 160 83
[A] In addition to the present activities mentioned above, Shell has ongoi ng activities related to the installation of water flood projects in Europe , Asia and Africa. Activities related to steam floods
are in progress in Europe, Asia and North America, and g as compression is being installed in Europe and Asia.

160 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’
REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF
R O Y A LD U T C HS H E L LP L C
REPORT ON THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Our opi nion
In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements of Royal Dutch
Shell plc (the Company):
/H18546give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at
December 31, 2014, and of its inco me and cash flows for the year
then ended;
/H18546have been properly prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European
Union; and
/H18546have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006.
Separate opi nion in relatio n to IFRS as issued by the
International Accou ntingS t andards Board (IASB)
As explained in Note 1 to the Parent Company Financial Statements,
the Company, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to
apply IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS
as issued by IASB.
In our opinion, the Parent Company Financial Statements comply with
IFRS as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited
The Parent Company Financial Statements comprise:
/H18546the Parent Company Statement of Income and Parent Company
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended
December 31, 2014;
/H18546the Parent Company Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2014;
/H18546the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year
ended December 31, 2014;
/H18546the Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended
December 31, 2014; and
/H18546the Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements, which
include a summary of significant accounting policies and other
explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the
Annual Report and Form 20-F (the Annual Report), rather than in the
Parent Company Financial Statements. These are cross-referenced from
the Parent Company Financial Statements and are identified as
audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable
law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
Consiste ncy of other i nformation
COMPANIES ACT 2006 OPINION
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the
Directors’ Report for the financia l year for which the Parent Company
Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent
Company Financial Statements.
ISAS (UK AND IRELAND) REPORTING
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs
(UK and Ireland)) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion,
information in the Annual Report is:
/H18546materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Parent
Company Financial Statements; or
/H18546apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent
with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of
performing our audit; or
/H18546otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy o f accounting records a ndi nformation and
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in
our opinion:
/H18546we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit; or
/H18546adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company,
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or
/H18546the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement
with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ re muneratio n
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT – COMPANIES ACT 2006 OPINION
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006.
OTHER COMPANIES ACT 2006 REPORTING
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in
our opinion, certain disclosures of Di rectors’ remuneration specified by
law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this
responsibility.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE PARENT COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
Our respo nsibilities a ndt h o s eof the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set
out on pages 62 and 63, the Directors are responsible for the
preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements and for being
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent
Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and
ISAs (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 161
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for
the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our
prior consent in writing.
What a n audit o ff inancial state ments involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK and Ireland). An
audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in
the Parent Company Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable
assurance that the Parent Company Financial Statements are free from
material misstatement, whether ca used by fraud or error. This includes
an assessment of:
/H18546whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately
disclosed;
/H18546the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the
Directors; and
/H18546the overall presentation of the Parent Company Financial Statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements
and evaluating the disclosures in the Parent Company Financial
Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive
procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in
the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited
Parent Company Financial Statements and to identify any information
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of
performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our
report.
OTHER MATTER
We have reported separately on the Consolidated Financial
Statements of Royal Dutch Shell plc for the year ended December 31,
2014.
Ross Hunter (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London, United Kingdom
March 11, 2015
Note that the report set out above is included for the purposes of
Royal Dutch Shell plc’s Annual Re port and Accounts for 2014 only and
does not form part of Royal Dutch Shell plc’s Annual Report on Form
20-F for 2014.

162 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
The Parent Company Financial Statements have not been audited in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States).
163 Statement of Income
163 Statement of Comprehensive Income
163 Balance Sheet
164 Statement of Changes in Equity
164 Statement of Cash Flows
165 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
165 Note 1 Basis of preparation
165 Note 2 Accounting policies
166 Note 3 Finance income and expense
166 Note 4 Investments in subsidiaries
166 Note 5 Accounts receivable
166 Note 6 Cash and cash equivalents
166 Note 7 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
167 Note 8 Taxation
167 Note 9 Financial instruments
167 Note 10 Share capital
169 Note 11 Other reserves
169 Note 12 Dividends
169 Note 13 Legal proceedings and other contingencies
169 Note 14 Directors and Senior Management
169 Note 15 Related parties
170 Note 16 Auditor’s remuneration

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 163
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATEMENT OF INCOME $ MILLION
NOTES 2014 2013
Dividendi ncome 18,031 13,693
Finance income 3 49 620
Administrative expenses (57) (73)
Finance expense 3 (1,956) (19)
Incomeb efore taxation 16,067 14,221
Taxation 81 22 8
Income for the period 16,079 14,249
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME $ MILLION
2014 2013
Income for the period 16,079 14,249
Comprehensive income for the period 16,079 14,249
BALANCE SHEET $ MILLION
NOTES Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 4 202,791 202,458
Deferred tax 8 493 565
203,284 203,023
Current assets
Accounts receivable 5 20,652 15,032
Cash and cash equivalents 6 168 215
20,820 15,247
Total assets 224,104 218,270
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Accounts payable anda c c r u e dl i a b i l i t i e s 7 260 15
260 15
Current liabilities
Accounts payable anda c c r u e dl i a b i l i t i e s 7 2,856 1,632
2,856 1,632
Total liabilities 3,116 1,647
Equity
Share capital 10 540 542
Other reserves 11 201,745 201,898
Retained earnings 18,703 14,183
Total equity 220,988 216,623
Total liabilities ande q u i t y 224,104 218,270
Signed on behalf of the Board
/s/ Simon Henry
Simon Henry
Chief Financial Officer
March 11, 2015

164 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY $ MILLION
NOTES
Share
capital
Other
reserves
Retained
earnings
Total
equity
At January 1, 2014 542 201,898 14,183 216,623
Comprehensive income for the period – – 16,079 16,079
Dividends paid 12 – – (11,843) (11,843)
Scrip dividends 12 6 (6) 2,399 2,399
Repurchases of shares 11 (8) 8 (2,787) (2,787)
Share-based compensation 11 – (155) 672 517
At December 31, 2014 540 201,745 18,703 220,988
At January 1, 2013 542 202,052 12,254 214,848
Comprehensive income for the period – – 14,249 14,249
Dividends paid 12 – – (11,338) (11,338)
Scrip dividends 12 12 (12) 4,140 4,140
Repurchases of shares 11 (12) 12 (5,757) (5,757)
Share-based compensation 11 – (154) 635 481
At December 31, 2013 542 201,898 14,183 216,623
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS $ MILLION
NOTES 2014 2013
Cash flow from operating activities
Income for the period 16,079 14,249
Adjustment for:
Dividendi ncome (18,031) (13,693)
Taxation (12) (28)
Interest income (7) (2)
Interest expense 14 19
Share-based compensation 27 27
Increase in working capital (3,771) (2,472)
Net cash used in operating activities (5,701) (1,900)
Cash flow from investing activities
Dividends received 18,031 13,693
Interest received 72
Share-based compensation 402 517
Net cash from investing activities 18,440 14,212
Cash flow from financing activities
Cash dividends paid 12 (9,444) (7,198)
Repurchases of shares (3,328) (5,000)
Interest paid (14) (19)
Net cash used inf
inancing activities (12,786) (12,217)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (47) 95
Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 215 120
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 6 168 215

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 165
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The Financial Statements of Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Company) have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act
2006 and with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the Euro pean Union. As applied to the Company, there are no
material differences from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting S tandards Board (IASB); therefore, the Financial Statements have been
prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
As described in the accounting policies in Note 2, the Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for
certain items measured at fair value. Those accounting policie s have been applied consistently in all periods presented.
The Financial Statements were appr oved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on March 11, 2015.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates. It also requires management to
exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company’s acc ounting policies. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The financial results of the Company are incl uded in the Consolidated Finan cial Statements on pages 106-141. The financial results of the
Company incorporate the results of the Dividen d Access Trust (the Trust), the financial stat ements for which are presented on pages 174-178.
The Company’s principal activity is being the parent company for Shell, as described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Except for the following accounting policies that specifically relate to the Company, the Company’s accounting policies follow those of Shell as
set out in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Prese ntatio n currency
The Company’s presentation and functio nal currency is US dollars (dollars).
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, net of any impairment. Key accounting estimates and judge ments affecting the assessment and
measurement of impairment follow those set out in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The original cost of the Company’s investment in Royal Dutch Petro leum Company (Royal Dutch) was based on the fair value of the shares
transferred to the Company by the former shareholders of Royal Dutch in e xchange for A shares in the Company during the public exchange offer
in 2005. The original cost of the Company’s investment in The “Shell” Tr ansport and Trading Company, p.l.c., now The Shell Transport and
Trading Company Limited (Shell Transport), was the fair value of the shar es held by the former shareholders of The “Shell” Transport and Trading
Company, p.l.c. transferred in consideratio n for the issuance of B shares as part of the Scheme of Arrangement in 2005. The Company’s
investments in Royal Dutch and Shell Transport now represent an investme nt in Shell Petroleum N.V. (Shell Petroleum); this change had no impact
on the cost of investments in subsidiaries.
Divide ndi ncome
Interim dividends are recognised on a paid basis unless the dividend h as been confirmed by a general meeting of Shell Transport or of Shell
Petroleum, in which case income is recognised on the date at which receipt is deemed virtually certain.
Share-based co mpensatio n plans
The fair value of share-based compensation for equity-settled plans grant ed to employees of subsidiaries under the Company’s plans is recognised
as an investment in subsidiaries from the date of grant over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity. The change in the fair
value of share-based compensation for cash-settled plans relating to employees of subsidiaries is recognised as an investment in subsidiaries with
a corresponding change in liabilities. In the year of vesting of a plan, the costs for the actual deliveries are charged to the relevant employing
subsidiaries. This is recognised as a realisation of the investment originally booked. If the actual vesting costs are higher than the cumulatively
recognised share-based compensation charge, the difference is recognised in income.
Refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the Company’s principal plan.
Taxatio n
The Company is tax-resident in the Netherlands. For the assessment of corporate income tax in th e Netherlands, the Company and certain of its
subsidiaries form a fiscal unit, in respect of which the Company recognises a ny current tax receivable or payable (or deferred tax asset or liability)
for the fiscal unit as a whole.
The Company’s tax charge or credit recognised in income is calculated at the statutory tax rate prevailing in the Netherlands.

166 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
3 FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSE
$ MILLION
2014 2013
Finance income
Interest income 72
Other income 42 –
Foreign exchange gains – 618
Total 49 620
Finance expense
Interest expense (14) (19)
Foreign exchange losses (1,942) –
Total (1,956) (19)
4 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
$ MILLION
2014 2013
At January 1 202,458 202,490
Share-based compensation 753 520
Recovery of vested share-based compensation (420) (552)
At December 31 202,791 202,458
5 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
$ MILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Amounts due from subsidiaries (see Note 15) 20,652 15,027
Other receivables –5
Total 20,652 15,032
6 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents comprise call deposits in euros, sterling an dd o l l a r sw i t hS h e l lT r e a s u r yC e n t r eL i m i t e d ,as u b s i d i a r y .T h eC o m p a n y
earned interest on these balances of less tha n $1 million in 2014 (2013: less than $1 million).
7 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES
$ MILLION
Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
CurrentN o n-current Curre ntN o n-current
Amounts due to subsidiaries (see Note 15) 2,179 – 497 –
Withholding tax payable 249 – 121 –
Accruals and other liabilities 426 260 1,012 15
Unclaimed dividends 2– 2–
Total 2,856 260 1,632 15
Accruals and other liabilities principally comprise commitments for share repurchases undertaken on the Company’s behalf under irrevocable, non-
discretionary arrangements and liabilities in respect of cash-settled share-based compensation.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 167
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8 TAXATION
TAXATION CREDIT $ MILLION
2014 2013
Current taxation
Credit in respect of currentp e r i o d – (13)
Total – (13)
Deferred taxation
Relatingt ot h eo r i g ination andr e v e r s a lof temporary differences
Adjustmenti n respect of prior periods
(6)
(6)
(19)
4
Total (12) (15)
Total taxation credit (12) (28)
RECONCILIATION OF APPLICABLE TAX CHARGE AT STATUTORY RATE TO TAXATION CREDIT $ MILLION
2014 2013
Incomeb efore taxation 16,067 14,221
Applicable tax charge at the statutory tax rate of 25.0% (2013: 25.0%) 4,017 3,555
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (6) 4
Tax effects of:
Income no ts u b j e c tt ot a x (4,038) (3,582)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 78
Other reconcilingi t ems 8 (13)
Taxation credit (12) (28)
Taxes payable are reported within accounts payable and accrued liabilities (see Note 7).
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS $ MILLION
2014 2013
At January 1 565 351
Recognised in income 12 15
Other movements (84) 199
At December 31 493 565
Deferred tax assets are principally recognised in respect of tax losses, which are available for relief against future taxable profits for up to nine
years from the year in which the losses were incurred.
9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial assets and liabilities in the Company’s Balance Sheet comprise cash and cash equivalents (see Note 6), accounts receivable (see
Note 5) and certain amounts reported within accounts payable and accrued liabilities (see Note 7).
Foreign currency derivatives are used by the Company to manage foreign exchange risk. Foreign exchange ri sk arises when certain transactions
are denominated in a currency that is not the Company’s functional currency. There were no derivative financial instruments held at December 31,
2014 or 2013.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities at Dec ember 31, 2014 and 2013 approxima tes their carrying amount.
Information on financial risk management is presented in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
10 SHARE CAPITAL
ISSUED AND FULLY PAID NUMBER OF SHARES
Ordina r ys h a r e sof €0.07 each Sterlingd eferred
shares of £1 eachAB
At January 1, 2014 3,898,011,213 2, 472,839,187 50,000
Scrip dividends 64,568,758 – –
Repurchases of shares (55,277,578) (32,428,573) –
At December 31, 2014 3,907,302,393 2, 440,410,614 50,000
At January 1, 2013 3,772,388,687 2, 617,715,189 50,000
Scrip dividends 125,622,526 – –
Repurchases of shares – (144,876,002) –
At December 31, 2013 3,898,011,213 2, 472,839,187 50,000

168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 10 continued]
NOMINAL VALUE $ MILLION
Ordina r ys h a r e sof €0.07 each
A B Total
At January 1, 2014 333 209 542
Scrip dividends 6– 6
Repurchases of shares (5) (3) (8)
At December 31, 2014 334 206 540
At January 1, 2013 321 221 542
Scrip dividends 12 – 12
Repurchases of shares – (12) (12)
At December 31, 2013 333 209 542
The total nominal value of sterling deferred shares is less than $1 million.
A and B shares repurchased in 2014 and 2013 under the Co mpany’s share buyback programme were all cancelled.
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) on May 20, 2014, the Boa rd was authorised to allot ordin ary shares in the Company and to
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any s ecurity into ordinary shares in the Company, up to an aggregate nominal amount of €147 million
(representing 2,100 million ordinary shares of €0.07 each), and to list such shares or rights on any stock exchange. This authority expires at the
earlier of the close of business on August 20, 2015, and the end of the AG M to be held in 2015, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied
by the Company in a general meeting.
B shares rank pari passu in all respects with A shares except for the dividend access mechanism described below. The Company and Shell
Transport can procure the termination of the dividend access mechanism at any time. Upon such termination, B shares will form one class with
A shares ranking pari passu in all respects and A and B shares will be known as ordinary shares without further distinction.
The sterling deferred shares are redeemable only at the discretion of t he Company for £1 each and carry no voting rights. There are no further
rights to participate in profits or assets, including the right to receive dividends. Upon winding up or liquidation, the shares carry a right to
repayment of paid-up nominal value, ranking ahead of A and B shares.
For information on the number of shares in the Company held by Shell employee share ownership trusts and trust-like entities to meet delivery
commitments under employee share plans, refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Divide nd access mechanismf or B shares
GENERAL
Dividends paid on A shares have a Dutch source for tax purposes and are subject to Dutch withholding tax.
It is the expectation and the intention, although there can be no certainty, that holders of B shares will receive dividends via the dividend access
mechanism. Any dividends paid on the dividend access share will have a UK source for Dutch and UK tax purposes; there will be no UK or Dutch
withholding tax on such dividends and certain holders (not including US holders) of B shares or B American Depositary Shares (ADSs) will be
entitled to a UK tax credit in respect of their proportional share of such dividends.
DESCRIPTION OF DIVIDEND ACCESS MECHANISM
A dividend access share has been issued by Shell Transport to Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited as dividend access trustee (the Trustee).
Pursuant to a declaration of trust, the Trustee will hold any dividends paid in respect of the dividend access share on trust for the holders of
B shares from time to time and will arrange for prompt disbursement of su ch dividends to holders of B shares. Interest and other income earned on
unclaimed dividends will be for the account of Shell Transport and any div idends that are unclaimed after 12 years will revert to Shell Transport.
Holders of B shares will not have any interest in the dividend access share and will not have any rights against Shell Transport as issuer of the
dividend access share. The only assets held on trust for the benefit of the holders of B shares will be dividends paid to the Trustee in respect of the
dividend access share.
The declaration and payment of dividends on the dividend access share will require Board action by Shell Transport and will be subject to any
applicable legal or articles limitations in effect from time to time. In no event will the aggregate amount of the dividend paid by Shell Transport
under the dividend access mechanism for a particular period exceed the aggregate amount of the dividend declared by the Company’s Board on
B shares in respect of the same period.
OPERATION OF THE DIVIDEND ACCESS MECHANISM
If, in connection with the declaration of a dividend by the Company on B shares, the Board of Shell Transport elects to declare and pay a
dividend on the dividend access share to the Trustee, the holders of B shares will be beneficially entitled to receive their share of that dividend
pursuant to the declaration of trust (and arrangements will be made to ensure that the dividend is paid in the same currency in which they would
have received a dividend from the Company).

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 169
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
If any amount is paid by Shell Transport by way of a dividend on the dividend access share and paid by the Trustee to any holder of B shares,
the dividend which the Company would otherwise pay on B shares will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to such holders of
B shares by the Trustee.
The Company will have a full and unconditional obligation, in the event that the Trustee does not pay an amount to holders of B shares on a cash
dividend payment date (even if that amount has been paid to the Trustee), to pay immediately the dividend declared on B shares. The right of
holders of B shares to receive distributions from the Trustee will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount of any payment actually made by
the Company on account of any dividend on B shares.
The dividend access mechanism may be suspended or terminated at any time by the Company’s Directors or the Directors of Shell Transport, for
any reason and without financial recompense. This might, for instance, occur in response to changes in relevant tax legislation.
11 OTHER RESERVES
$ MILLION
Merger
reserve
Share premium
reserve
Capital redemption
reserve
Share plan
reserve Total
At January 1, 2014 200,344 154 75 1,325 201,898
Scrip dividends ( 6 ) ––– ( 6 )
Repurchases of shares –– 8– 8
Share-based compensation – – – (155) (155)
At December 31, 2014 200,338 154 83 1,170 201,745
At January 1, 2013 200,356 154 63 1,479 202,052
Scrip dividends (12) – – – (12)
Repurchases of shares –– 1 2– 1 2
Share-based compensation – – – (154) (154)
At December 31, 2013 200,344 154 75 1,325 201,898
The merger reserve was established as a consequence of the Company bec oming the single parent company of Royal Dutch and Shell Transport
and represented the difference between the cost of the investment in those companies and the nominal value of shares issued in exchange for
those investments as required by the prevailing legis lation at that time, section 131 of the Companies Act 1985.
On January 6, 2006, loan notes were converted in to 4,827,974 A shares. The difference between the carrying value of the loan notes and the
nominal value of the new shares issued was credited to the share premium reserve. The capital redemption reserve was established in connection
with repurchases of shares of the Company. The share plan reserve repre sents the fair value of share-based compensation granted to employees
of subsidiaries under the Company’s equity-settled plans.
12 DIVIDENDS
Refer to Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
13 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND OTHER CONTINGENCIES
Refer to Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
14 DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Refer to Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial S tatements for the remuneration of Directors of the Company. In 2014, the Company recognised
$25 million (2013: $30 million) in administr ative expenses for the compensation o f Directors and Senior Management.
15 RELATED PARTIES
Information about significant sub sidiaries at December 31, 2014, is set out in Exhibit 8. The Co mpany has no direct interest in incorporated joint
arrangements and associates. A complete list of investments in subsidiaries, incorporated joint arrangements and associates will be attached to
the Company’s annual return made to the Registrar of Companies.
$ MILLION
Amounts due from subsidiaries
(See Note 5)
Amounts due to subsidiaries
(See Note 7)
2014 2013 2014 2013
Shell Petroleum 20,650 14,800 455 497
Shell Treasury Luxembourg Sarl – 227 1,724 –
Shell International Finance B.V. 2– – –
Total 20,652 15,027 2,179 497
The amount due from Shell Petroleum, which is de nominated in dollars, is repayable on demand. Interest is calculated at US LIBOR less 0.125%
and interest income in 2014 was less than $1 million (2013: $1 million).

170 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 15 continued]
The net amount due to (2013: due from) Shell Treasury Luxembourg Sar l at December 31, 2014, comprises an int erest-bearing receivable of
€15,537 million (2013: €11,014 million) and an in terest-bearing payable of $20,610 millio n (2013: $14,939 million). Interest on euro
balances is calculated at EONIA less 0.1% (2013: EONIA less 0.125% ) and on dollar balances at US LIBOR (2013: US LIBOR). Net interest
expense on these balances in 2014 was $7 million (2013: $18 million).
Other tra nsactio nsa nd bala nces
The Company enters into forward and spot foreign currency contracts with Treasury companies, which are subsidiaries. There were no open
foreign currency contracts at December 31, 2014 or 2013.
The Company settles general and administrative expenses of the Trust, including the auditor’s remuneration.
The Company has guaranteed contractual payments totalling $34,826 million at Dec ember 31, 2014 (2013: $35,230 million), and related
interest in respect of listed debt issued by Shell International Finance B.V.
16 AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
Refer to Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 171
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’
REPORT TO COMPUTERSHARE
TRUSTEES (JERSEY) LIMITED AS
TRUSTEE OF THE ROYAL
DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND
ACCESS TRUST
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opi nion
In our opinion the Financial Statements of the Royal Dutch Shell
Dividend Access Trust (the Trust):
/H18546give a true and fair view of the state of the Trust’s affairs as at
December 31, 2014, and of its inco me and cash flows for the year
then ended; and
/H18546have been properly prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European
Union.
Separate opi nion in relatio n to IFRS as issued by the
International Accou ntingS t andards Board (IASB)
As explained in Note 2 to the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust
Financial Statements, the Trust, in addition to complying with its legal
obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also
applied IFRS as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial
Statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited
The Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements
comprise:
/H18546the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Statement of Income and
the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Statement of
Comprehensive Income for the year ended December 31, 2014;
/H18546the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Balance Sheet as at
December 31, 2014;
/H18546the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Statement of Changes in
Equity for the year ended December 31, 2014;
/H18546the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended December 31, 2014; and
/H18546the Notes to the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial
Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting
policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the
Royal Dutch Shell plc Annual Report and Form 20-F (the Annual
Report), rather than in the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust
Financial Statements. These are cross-referenced from the Royal Dutch
Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements and are identified as
audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
preparation of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial
Statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European
Union.
What a n audit o ff inancial state ments involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK and Ireland)). An audit involves
obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Royal
Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements sufficient to give
reasonable assurance that the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust
Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:
/H18546whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Trust’s
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately
disclosed;
/H18546the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the
Trustee; and
/H18546the overall presentation of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access
Trust Financial Statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Trustee’s
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements
and evaluating the disclosures in the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend
Access Trust Financial Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive
procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in
the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited
Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements and to
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based
on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications
for our report.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTER
In our opinion the information given in the Annual Report for the
financial year for which the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust
Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Royal Dutch
Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE HAVE AGREED TO REPORT
BY EXCEPTION
We have agreed to report to you if, in our opinion:
/H18546we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit; or
/H18546adequate accounting records have not been kept; or
/H18546the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements are
not in agreement with the accounting records.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND THE AUDIT
Our respo nsibilities a ndt h o s eof the Trustee
The Trustee is responsible for the preparation of the Royal Dutch Shell
Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements and for being satisfied that
t h e yg i v eat r u ea n df a i rv i e w .
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Royal
Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements in accordance
with applicable law and ISAs (UK and Ireland). Those standards
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical
Standards for Auditors.

172 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for
the Trustee as a body and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving
these opinions, accept or assume re sponsibility for any other purpose
or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent
in writing.
PricewaterhouseCoopers CI LLP
Chartered Accountants
Jersey, Channel Islands
March 11, 2015
Note that the report set out above is included for the purposes of
Royal Dutch Shell plc’s Annual Report and Accounts for 2014 only and
does not form part of Royal Dutch Shell plc’s Annual Report on
Form 20-F for 2014.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 173
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM
TO COMPUTERSHARE TRUSTEES (JERSEY) LIMITED AS
TRUSTEE OF THE ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND
ACCESS TRUST AND THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND
SHAREHOLDERS OF ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC
Our opi nion
In our opinion, the accompanying Statement of Income, the Statement
of Comprehensive Income, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of
Changes in Equity, the Statement of Cash Flows, and the related
Notes to the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial
Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend A ccess Trust (the Trust) at December
31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, and t he results of its operations
and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2014 in conformity w ith International Financial
Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board and in conformity with International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. Also in our
opinion, the Trust maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on
criteria established in Internal Control – Inte grated Framework (2013)
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO). The Trustee and the management of Royal Dutch
Shell plc are responsible for these Financial Statements, for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included
in the Trustee’s and Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust set
out on page 71. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these
Financial Statements and on the Trust’s internal control over financial
reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the Financial Statements are free of material misstatement and whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audits of the Financial Statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the Financial Statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of
internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also in cluded performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorisations of management and directors of the company; and
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.
Because of its inherent limitations , internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
PricewaterhouseCoopers CI LLP
Jersey, Channel Islands
March 11, 2015
Note that the report set out above is included for the purposes of Royal
Dutch Shell plc’s Annual Report o n Form 20-F for 2014 only and does
not form part of Royal Dutch Shell plc’s Annual Report and Accounts
for 2014.

174 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
ROYAL DUTCH SHELL
DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
175 Statement of Income
175 Statement of Comprehensive Income
175 Balance Sheet
176 Statement of Changes in Equity
176 Statement of Cash Flows
177 Notes to the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial
Statements
177 Note 1 The Trust
177 Note 2 Basis of preparation
177 Note 3 Accounting policies
177 Note 4 Other liabilities
177 Note 5 Capital account
177 Note 6 Distributions made
177 Note 7 Financial instruments
178 Note 8 Related parties
178 Note 9 Auditor’s remuneration

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 175
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATEMENT OF INCOME £ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Dividendi ncome 2,470 2,361 2,383
Incomeb efore anda fter taxation and for the period 2,470 2,361 2,383
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME £ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Income for the period 2,470 2,361 2,383
Comprehensive income for the period 2,470 2,361 2,383
BALANCE SHEET £ MILLION
NOTES Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 11
Total assets 11
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Other liabilities 411
Total liabilities 11
Equity
Capital account 5––
Revenue account ––
Total equity ––
Total liabilities ande q u i t y 11
Signed on behalf of Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited
as Trustee of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust
/s/ Lisa Knowles
/s/ Martin Fish
Lisa Knowles Marti n Fish
March 11, 2015

176 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY £ MILLION
NOTES
Capital
account
Revenue
account
Total
equity
At January 1, 2014 –––
Comprehensive income for the period – 2,470 2,470
Distributions made 6 – (2,470) (2,470)
At December 31, 2014 –––
At January 1, 2013 –––
Comprehensive income for the period – 2,361 2,361
Distributions made 6 – (2,361) (2,361)
At December 31, 2013 –––
At January 1, 2012 –––
Comprehensive income for the period – 2,383 2,383
Distributions made 6 – (2,383) (2,383)
At December 31, 2012 –––
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS £ MILLION
2014 2013 2012
Cash flow from operating activities
Income for the period 2,470 2,361 2,383
Adjustment for:
Dividends received (2,470) (2,361) (2,383)
Net cash from operating activities –––
Cash flow from investing activities
Dividends received 2,470 2,361 2,383
Net cash from investing activities 2,470 2,361 2,383
Cash flow from financing activities
Distributions made (2,470) (2,361) (2,383)
Net cash used inf inancing activities (2,470) (2,361) (2,383)
Change in cash and cash equivalents –––
Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 111
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 111

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS 177
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS
TRUST FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1T H ET R U S T
The Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust ( the Trust) was established on May 19, 2005, by Th e “Shell” Transport and Trading Company,
p.l.c., now The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited (Shell Trans port), and Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Company). The Trust is governed
by the applicable laws of England and Wales and is resident and domicile d in Jersey. The Trustee of the Trust is Computershare Trustees (Jersey)
Limited, registration number 92182 (the Trustee), Q ueensway House, Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Je rsey, JE1 1ES. The Trust was established as part
of a dividend access mechanism.
A dividend access share has been issued by Shell Transport to the Trustee. Following the announcement of a dividend by the Company on the
B shares, Shell Transport may declare a dividend on the dividend access share.
The primary purposes of the Trust are to receive, on behalf of the B shareholders of the Company and in accordance with their respective
holdings of B shares in the Company, any amounts paid by way of div idend on the dividend access share and to pay such amounts to the
B shareholders on the same pro-rata basis.
The Trust shall not endure for a period in excess of 80 years fro m May 19, 2005, being the date on which the Trust Deed was executed.
2 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The Financial Statements of the Trust have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the
European Union. As applied to the Trust, there are no material differences from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board
(IASB), therefore, the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
As described in the accounting policies in Note 3, the Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention. Those
accounting policies have been applied consistently in all periods presented.
The Financial Statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Trustee on March 11, 2015.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates. It also requires management to
exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Trust’s accounting policies. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The financial res ults
of the Trust are included in the Consolidat ed and Parent Company Financial Statement s on pages 106-141 and pages 162-170 respectively.
3 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Except for the following accounting policies that relate specifically to the Trust, the Trust’s accounting policies follow those of Shell as set out i n
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Prese ntatio n currency
The Trust’s presentation and functional currency is sterling. The Trust’s dividend income and dividends paid are principally in sterling.
Divide ndi ncome
Interim dividends on the dividend access share are recognised on a pai d basis unless the dividend has been confirmed by a general meeting of
Shell Transport, in which case income is recognised on the date on which receipt is deemed virtually certain.
Taxatio n
The Trust is not subject to taxation.
4 OTHER LIABILITIES
Other liabilities consist of £1,497,815 (2013: £1, 333,658) relating to unclaimed dividends, inclu ding any dividend cheque payments that
have expired or have been returned unpresented.
5 CAPITAL ACCOUNT
The capital account is represented by the dividend access share of 25 pence settled in the Trust by Shell Transport, which also represents an asset
in the Trust. This is classified as equity in the balance sheet.
6 DISTRIBUTIONS MADE
Distributions are made to the B shareholders of the Company in accordance with the Trust Deed. Refer to Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information about dividend s per share. Cumulative unclaimed dividen ds as at December 31, 2014, amounted to £1,497,815
(2013: £1,333,658). Amounts are recorded as distrib uted once a wire transfer or cheque is issued . All cheques are valid for one year from the
date of issue. Any wire transfers that are not completed are replaced by ch eques. To the extent that cheques expire or are returned unpresented,
the Trust records a liability for unclaimed dividends and a corresponding amount of cash.
7 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial risk management is carried out by the Trustee and the Company to ensure that relevant policies and procedures are in place to
minimise risk.

178 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS
ROYAL DUTCH SHELL DIVIDEND ACCESS TRUST
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
[Note 7 continued]
The Trust, in its normal course of business, is not subject to significant market risk, credit risk or liquidity risk. The Trustee does not consider tha ta n y
foreign exchange exposures will materially affect the operations of the Trust.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities at Dec ember 31, 2014 and 2013 approximat es their carrying amount.
8 RELATED PARTIES
The Trust received dividend income of £2,470 million (2013: £2,361 million; 2012: £2,383 million) in respect of the dividend access share.
The Trust made distributions of £2,470 million (2013: £2,361 mill ion; 2012: £2,383 million) to the B shareholders of the Company.
The Company pays the general and administrative expenses of the Trust, including the auditor’s remuneration.
9 AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
Auditor’s remuneration for 2014 audit s ervices was £33,750 (2013: £33,750; 2012: £33,750).

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 179
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Company) was incorporated in England and
Wales on February 5, 2002, as a private company under the
Companies Act 1985, as amended. On October 27, 2004, the
Company was re-registered as a public company limited by shares
and changed its name from Forthdeal Limited to Royal Dutch Shell plc.
The Company is registered at Companies House, Cardiff, under
company number 4366849, and at the Chamber of Commerce, The
Hague, under company number 34179503. The business address for
the Directors and Senior Management is: Carel van Bylandtlaan 30,
2596 HR, The Hague, The Netherlands.
The Company is resident in the Netherlands for Dutch and UK tax
purposes and its primary objective is to carry on the business of a
holding company. It is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by
another corporation or by any government and does not know of any
arrangements that may result in a change of control of the Company.
NATURE OF TRADING MARKET
The Company has two classes of ord inary shares: A and B shares. The
principal trading market for A shares is Euronext Amsterdam and the
principal trading market for B shares is the London Stock Exchange.
Ordinary shares are traded in registered form.
A and B American Depositary Shares (ADSs) are listed on the New
York Stock Exchange [A]. A depositary receipt is a certificate that
evidences ADSs. Depositary receipts are issued, cancelled and
exchanged at the office of The Bank of New York Mellon,
101 Barclay Street, New York, NY 10286, USA, as depositary (the
Depositary) under a deposit agreement between the Company, the
Depositary and the holders of ADS s. Each ADS represents two €0.07
shares of Royal Dutch Shell plc deposited under the agreement. More
information relating to ADSs is given on page 183.
[A] At February 17, 2015, there were outstanding 439,365,883 A ADSs and
166,317,323 B ADSs, representing 22% and 13% of the respective share capital class, held
by 6,556 and 873 holders of record with an address in the USA, respectively. In addition to
holders of ADSs, as at February 17, 2015, there were 72,688 A shares and 695,727
B shares of €0.07 each representing 0.002% and 0.029% of the respective share capital
class, held by 105 and 842 holders of record registered with an address in the USA
respectively.
LISTING INFORMATION
As h a r e s Bs h a r e s
Ticker symbol London RDSA RDSB
Ticker symbol Amsterdam RDSA RDSB
Ticker symbol New York
(ADS [A]) RDS.A RDS.B
ISIN Code GB00B03MLX29 GB00B03MM408
CUSIP G7690A100 G7690A118
SEDOL Number London B03MLX2 B03MM40
SEDOL Number Euronext B09CBL4 B09CBN6
Weightingo n FTSE as at
31/12/14 5.08% 3.28%
Weightingo n AEX as at
31/12/14 14.71% not included
[A] Each A ADS represents two A shares of €0.07 each and each B ADS represents two B
shares of €0.07 each.
SHARE CAPITAL
The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company as at
February 17, 2015, was as follows:
SHARE CAPITAL
Issued and fully paid
Number No minal value
Ordina r ys h a r e sof €0.07 each
As h a r e s 3,894,584,881 €272,620,942
Bs h a r e s 2,440,410,614 €170,828,743
Sterlingd eferred shares of £1 each 50,000 £50,000
The Directors may only allot new ordinary shares if they have authority
from shareholders to do so. The Com pany seeks to renew this authority
annually at its Annual General Meeting (AGM). Under the resolution
passed at the Company’s 2014 AGM, the Directors were granted
authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount
equivalent to approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share
capital of the Company (in line with the guidelines issued by
institutional investors).
The following is a summary of the material terms of the Company’s
ordinary shares, including brief descriptions of the provisions contained
in the Articles of Association (the Articles) and applicable laws of
England and Wales in effect on the date of this document. This
summary does not purport to include complete statements of these
provisions:
/H18546upon issuance, A and B shares are fully paid and free from all liens,
equities, charges, encumbrances and other interest of the Company
and not subject to calls of any kind;
/H18546all A and B shares rank equally for all dividends and distributions on
ordinary share capital; and
/H18546A and B shares are admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing
Authority and to trading on the market for listed securities of the
London Stock Exchange. A and B shares are also admitted to
trading on Euronext Amsterdam. Aa n dBA D S sa r el i s t e do nt h e
New York Stock Exchange.
As at December 31, 2014, trusts and trust-like entities holding shares
for the benefit of employee share plans of Shell held (directly and
indirectly) 52.7 million shares of the Company with an aggregate
market value of $1,777 million and an aggregate nominal value of
€3.7 million.

180 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
CONTINUED
SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS
The Company’s A and B shares have identical voting rights, and
accordingly the Company’s major shareholders do not have different
voting rights.
Significant direct shareholdi ngs
As at February 17, 2015, direct holdings of 3% or more of either class
of the Company’s shares held by registered members representing the
interests of underlying investors is given below.
DIRECT SHAREHOLDINGS
A shares B shares Total
Number % Nu mber % Nu mber %
BNY (Nominees) Limited 704,621,530 18.09 320,698,288 13.14 1,025,319,818 16.19
Chase Nominees Limited 45,999,727 1.18 159,215,995 6.52 205,215,722 3.24
Euroclear Nederland 1,680,524,979 43.15 13,753,435 0.56 1,694,278,414 26.75
Lynchwood Nominees Limited
(2006420) 34,374,601 0.88 103,730,090 4.25 138,104,691 2.18
State Street Nominees Limited
(OM02) 95,009,879 2.44 107,174,920 4.39 202,184,799 3.19
State Street Nominees Limited
(OM04) 59,716,534 1.53 125,815,712 5.16 185,532,246 2.93
Significanti ndirect shareholdi ngs
As at February 17, 2015, interests of investors with 3% or more of
either class of the Company’s shares is given below.
INDIRECT SHAREHOLDINGS
A shares B shares Total
Number % Nu mber % Nu mber %
BlackRock, Inc. 265,897,706 6.83 194,802,203 7.98 460,699,909 7.27
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 66,318,448 1.70 188,647,986 7.73 254,966,434 4.02
NOTIFICATION OF MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS
During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company was
notified by the following investor of its interests in the Company’s
shares pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.
INVESTOR
Date of
notification
A shares B shares Total
Number % Nu mber % Nu mber %
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. August 18, 2014 63,793,188 1.62 191,671,894 7.85 255,465,082 4.00
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. October 1, 2014 63,802,898 1.62 188,028,184 7.70 251,831,082 3.95
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. November 12, 2014 64,538,348 1.65 189,544,083 7.77 254,082,431 4.00
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. November 15, 2014 63,408,815 1.62 189,534,684 7.77 252,943,499 3.98
The Company received the following notification pursuant to Disclosure
and Transparency Rule 5 in the period from December 31, 2014, to
February 17, 2015 (being a date not more than one month prior to
the date of the Company’s Notice of Annual General Meeting).
INVESTOR
Date of
notification
A shares B shares Total
Number % Nu mber % Nu mber %
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. January 13, 2015 66,253,448 1.70 187,698,386 7.69 253,951,834 4.00

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 181
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
DIVIDENDS
The following tables show the dividends on each class of share and
each class of ADS for the years 2010-2014.
AA N DBS H A R E S $
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Q1 0.47 0.45 0.43 0.42 0.42
Q2 0.47 0.45 0.43 0.42 0.42
Q3 0.47 0.45 0.43 0.42 0.42
Q4 0.47 0.45 0.43 0.42 0.42
Total announced in
respect of the year 1.88 1.80 1.72 1.68 1.68
AS H A R E S € [A]
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Q1 0.35 0.34 0.35 0.29 0.32
Q2 0.36 0.34 0.34 0.29 0.32
Q3 0.38 0.33 0.33 0.32 0.31
Q4 0.43 0.32 0.33 0.32 0.30
Total announced in
respect of the year 1.53 1.34 1.35 1.22 1.25
Amount paid during
the year 1.42 1.34 1.34 1.20 1.25
[A] Euro equivalent, rounded to the nearest euro cent.
BS H A R E S PENCE [A]
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Q1 28.03 28.99 27.92 25.71 27.37
Q2 29.09 28.67 27.08 25.77 26.89
Q3 30.16 27.51 26.86 27.11 26.72
Q4 31.20 26.88 28.79 26.74 25.82
Total announced in
respect of the year 118.48 112.05 110.65 105.33 106.80
Amount paid during
the year 114.16 113.96 108.60 104.41 107.34
[A] Sterling equivalent.
AA N DBA D S s $
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Q1 0.94 0.90 0.86 0.84 0.84
Q2 0.94 0.90 0.86 0.84 0.84
Q3 0.94 0.90 0.86 0.84 0.84
Q4 0.94 0.90 0.86 0.84 0.84
Total announced in
respect of the year 3.76 3.60 3.44 3.36 3.36
Amount paid during
the year 3.72 3.56 3.42 3.36 3.36

182 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
CONTINUED
HIGH, LOW AND YEAR-END SHARE PRICES
The following tables show the high, low and year-end prices, taken
directly from the respective securities exchange, of the Company’s
registered ordinary shares:
/H18546of €0.07 nominal value on the London Stock Exchange;
/H18546of €0.07 nominal value on Euronext Amsterdam; and
/H18546in the form of ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange (ADSs do not
have a nominal value).
ANNUAL SHARE PRICES
Euronext Amsterdam
As h a r e s
New York Stock Exchange
AA D S s
High € Low € Year-end € High $ Low $ Year-e nd$
2010 25.28 19.53 24.73 68.54 49.16 66.78
2011 28.40 20.12 28.15 77.96 57.97 73.09
2012 29.18 24.30 25.98 74.51 60.62 68.95
2013 27.06 23.40 25.91 73.00 62.65 71.27
2014 31.13 24.30 27.66 83.42 60.84 66.95
London Stock Exchange
Bs h a r e s
New York Stock Exchange
BA D S s
High pence Low pe nce Year-e ndp ence High $ Low $ Year-e nd$
2010 2,149 1,550 2,115 68.32 47.12 66.67
2011 2,476 1,768 2,454 78.75 58.42 76.01
2012 2,499 2,020 2,175 77.52 63.05 70.89
2013 2,375 2,070 2,280 75.18 65.02 75.11
2014 2,614 1,985 2,233 88.13 62.11 69.56
QUARTERLY SHARE PRICES
Euronext Amsterdam
As h a r e s
London Stock Exchange
Bs h a r e s
New York Stock Exchange
AA D S s
New York Stock Exchange
BA D S s
High € Low € High pence Low pe nce High $ Low $ High $ Low $
2013
Q1 27.06 24.36 2,375 2,143 73.00 64.51 74.95 66.00
Q2 26.80 23.94 2,360 2,105 69.94 62.76 72.25 65.02
Q3 26.07 23.71 2,350 2,105 68.82 62.65 71.65 65.24
Q4 25.99 23.40 2,297 2,070 71.48 63.27 75.18 66.00
2014
Q1 26.96 25.01 2,385 2,183 74.17 67.75 80.07 71.42
Q2 30.65 26.36 2,614 2,327 82.86 72.94 87.59 77.51
Q3 31.13 29.43 2,599 2,407 83.42 75.77 88.13 78.77
Q4 30.24 24.30 2,436 1,985 75.77 60.84 78.76 62.11
MONTHLY SHARE PRICES
Euronext Amsterdam
As h a r e s
London Stock Exchange
Bs h a r e s
New York Stock Exchange
AA D S s
New York Stock Exchange
BA D S s
High € Low € High pence Low pe nce High $ Low $ High $ Low $
2014
September 31.12 29.62 2,581 2,407 80.96 75.77 84.82 78.77
October 30.24 25.51 2,436 2,111 75.77 65.68 78.76 68.54
November 29.00 26.34 2,409 2,169 72.00 66.29 75.56 69.35
December 28.57 24.30 2,309 1,985 69.50 60.84 72.22 62.11
2015
January 29.59 25.75 2,315 2,025 67.16 60.67 70.15 62.56
February 29.53 27.12 2,283 2,128 67.16 62.06 70.05 65.10

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 183
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
METHOD OF HOLDING SHARES OR AN INTEREST IN
SHARES
There are several ways in which Royal Dutch Shell plc registered
shares or an interest in these shares can be held, including:
/H18546directly as registered shares either in uncertificated form or in
certificated form in a shareholder’s own name;
/H18546indirectly through Euroclear Nederland (in respect of which the Dutch
Securities Giro Act (“Wet giraal e ffectenverkeer”) is applicable);
/H18546through the Royal Dutch Shell Corporate Nominee; and
/H18546as a direct or indirect holder of either an A or a B ADS with the
Depositary.
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY SHARES
The Depositary is the registered shareholder of the shares underlying
the A or B American Depositary Shares (ADSs) and enjoys the rights of
a shareholder under the Article s. Holders of ADSs will not have
shareholder rights. The rights of the holder of an A or a B ADS are
specified in the respective Depositary agreements with the Depositary
and are summarised below.
The Depositary will receive all cash dividends and other cash
distributions made on the deposited shares underlying the ADSs and,
where possible and on a reasonable basis, will distribute such
dividends and distributions to holders of ADSs. Rights to purchase
additional shares will also be made available to the Depositary who
may make such rights available to holders of ADSs. All other
distributions made on the Company’s shares will be distributed by the
Depositary in any means that the Depositary thinks is equitable and
practical. The Depositary may deduct its fees and expenses and the
amount of any taxes owed from any payments to holders and it may
sell a holder’s deposited shares to pay any taxes owed. The
Depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or
impractical to make a distribution available to holders of ADSs.
The Depositary will notify holders of ADSs of shareholders’ meetings of
the Company and will arrange to deliver voting materials to such
holders of ADSs if requested by the Company. Upon request by a
holder, the Depositary will endeavour to appoint such holder as proxy
in respect of such holder’s deposited shares entitling such holder to
attend and vote at shareholders’ meetings. Holders of ADSs may also
instruct the Depositary to vote their deposited securities and the
Depositary will try, as far as practical and lawful, to vote deposited
shares in accordance with such instructions. The Company cannot
ensure that holders will receive voting materials or otherwise learn of
an upcoming shareholders’ meeting in time to ensure that holders can
instruct the Depositary to vote their shares.
Upon payment of appropriate fees, expenses and taxes:
(i) shareholders may deposit their shares with the Depositary and
receive the corresponding class and amount of ADSs; and (ii) holders
of ADSs may surrender their ADSs to the Depositary and have the
corresponding class and amount of shares credited to their account.
Further, subject to certain limitations, holders may, at any time, cancel
ADSs and withdraw their underlying shares or have the corresponding
class and amount of shares credited to their account. The Depositary
may also deliver ADSs prior to deposit of the underlying securities
subject to certain conditions, including, without limitation, that such pre-
released ADSs are fully collateralised and that the underlying securities
are assigned to and held for the account of the Depositary.
Fees paid by holders o f ADSs
The Depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs
directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for the
purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them. The
Depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors by
deducting those fees from the amounts distributed or by selling a
portion of distributable property to pay the fees. The Depositary may
generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services until its fees for those
services are paid. (See page 184.)
Reimbursements to the Co mpany
The Bank of New York Mellon, as Depositary, has agreed to reimburse
the Company for expenses it incurs that are related maintenance
expenses of the ADS programme. The Depositary has agreed to
reimburse the Company for its continuing annual stock exchange listing
fees. The Depositary has also agreed to pay certain legal expenses
and the standard out-of-pocket maintenance costs for the ADSs, which
consist of the expenses of postage and envelopes for mailing annual
and interim financial reports, printing and distributing dividend
cheques, electronic filing of US federal tax information, mailing
required tax forms, stationery, postage, facsimile and telephone calls.
It has also agreed to reimburse the Company annually for certain costs
associated with the AGM, investor relationship programmes and
special investor relations promotional activities. There are limits on the
amount of expenses for which the Depositary will reimburse the
Company, but the amount of reimbursement available to the Company
is not necessarily tied to the amount of fees the Depositary collects from
investors. From January 1, 2014, to February 17, 2015, the
Company received $5,042,860 from the Depositary.
SCRIP DIVIDEND PROGRAMME
The Company’s Scrip Dividend Programme, which enabled
shareholders to increase their shar eholding by choosing to receive new
shares instead of cash dividends (if approved by the Board), was
cancelled with effect from the sec ond quarter 2014 interim dividend
onwards. Only new A shares were issued under the programme,
including to shareholders who held B shares. The programme is being
reintroduced with effect from the f irst quarter 2015 interim dividend
onwards. More information can be found at www.shell.com/scrip.

184 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
CONTINUED
Persons depositing or withdrawing shares must pay: For:
$5.00 or less per 100 ADSs (or portion of 100 ADSs) Issuance of ADSs , including those resulting from a distribution of shares,
rights or other property;
Cancellation of ADSs for the purpose of their withdrawal, including if the
deposit agreement terminates; and
Distribution of securities to holders of deposited securities by the Depositary
to ADS registered holders.
Registration and transfer fees Registration and transfer of shares on the share register to or from the
name of the Depositary or its agent when they deposit or withdraw shares.
Expenses of the Depositary Cable, telex and facsimile transmissions (when expressly provided in the
deposit agreement); and
Converting foreign currency to US dollars.
Taxes and other governmental charges the Depositary or the custodian has
to pay on any ADS or share underlying an ADS, for example, share transfer
taxes, stamp duty or withholding taxes
As necessary.
EXCHANGE CONTROLS AND OTHER LIMITATIONS
AFFECTING SECURITY HOLDERS
Other than those individuals and entities that are subject to EU
sanctions, for example, regarding Iran and Syria, there is no legislative
or other legal provision currently in force in the UK, the Netherlands or
arising under the Articles restricting remittances to non-resident holders
of the Company’s ordinary shares or affecting the import or export of
capital for use by the Company.
TAXATION
General
The Company is incorporated in England and Wales and tax-resident
in the Netherlands. As a tax resident of the Netherlands, it is generally
required by Dutch law to withhold tax at a rate of 15% on dividends
on its ordinary shares and ADSs, subject to the provisions of any
applicable tax convention or domestic law. The following sets forth the
operation of the provisions on dividends on the Company’s various
ordinary shares and ADSs to UK and US holders, as well as certain
other tax rules pertinent to holders. Holders should consult their tax
adviser for more details.
Divide nds paid o n the divide nd access share
There is no Dutch withholding tax on dividends on B shares or B ADSs
provided that such dividends are paid on the dividend access share
pursuant to the dividend access mechanism (see “Dividend access
mechanism for B shares” on page 72). Dividends paid on the dividend
access share are treated as UK-source for tax purposes and there is no
UK withholding tax on them. Also, under UK law, individual
shareholders resident in the UK are entitled to a UK tax credit with
dividends paid on the dividend access share. The amount of the UK
tax credit is 10/90ths of the cash dividend; it is not repayable when it
exceeds the individual’s UK tax liability. In 2014, all dividends with
respect to B shares and B ADSs were paid on the dividend access
share pursuant to the dividend access mechanism.
Dutch withholdi ngt a x
When Dutch withholding tax applies on dividends paid to a US holder
(that is, dividends on A shares or A ADSs, or on B shares or B ADSs
that are not paid on the dividend access share pursuant to the
dividend access mechanism), the US holder will be subject to Dutch
withholding tax at the rate of 15%. A US holder who is entitled to the
benefits of the 1992 Double Taxatio n Convention (the Convention)
between the USA and the Netherlands as amended by the protocol
signed on March 8, 2004, will be entitled to a reduction in the Dutch
withholding tax, either by way of a full or a partial exemption at
source or by way of a partial refund or a credit as follows:
/H18546if the US holder is an exempt pension trust as described in article
35 of the Convention, or an exempt organisation as described in
article 36 thereof, the US holder will be exempt from Dutch
withholding tax; or
/H18546if the US holder is a company that holds directly at least 10% of the
voting power in the Company, the US holder will be subject to Dutch
withholding tax at a rate not exceeding 5%.
In general, the entire dividend (including any amount withheld) will be
dividend income to the US holder and the withholding tax will be
treated as a foreign income tax that is eligible for credit against the US
holder’s income tax liability or a deduction subject to certain
limitations. A “US holder” includes, but is not limited to, a citizen or
resident of the USA, or a corporation or other entity organised under
the laws of the USA or any of its political subdivisions.
When Dutch withholding tax applies on dividends paid to UK
tax-resident holders (that is, dividends on A shares or A ADSs, or on B
shares or B ADSs that are not paid on the dividend access share
pursuant to the dividend access mechanism), the dividend will typically
be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 15%. Such UK tax-resident
holder will be entitled to a credit (not repayable) for withholding tax
against their UK tax liability. However, certain corporate shareholders
are, subject to conditions, exempt from UK tax on dividends.
Withholding tax suffered cannot be offset against such exempt
dividends. Pension plans meeting certain defined criteria can,
however, claim a full refund of the dividend tax withheld. Also, UK
tax-resident corporate shareholders holding at least a 5% shareholding
and meeting other defined criteria are exempted at source from
dividend tax.
For shareholders who are tax-resident in any other country, the
availability of a whole or partial exemption or refund of Dutch
withholding tax is governed by Dutch tax law and/or the tax
convention, if any, between the Netherlands and the country of the
shareholder’s residence.
Scrip Divide nd Progra mme
The Scrip Dividend Programme, which enabled shareholders to
increase their shareholding by choosing to receive new shares instead
of cash dividends (if approved by the Board), was cancelled with
effect from the second quarter 2014 interim dividend onwards. Only

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 185
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION/SECTION 13(r) OF THE US SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DISCLOSURE
new A shares were issued under the programme, including to
shareholders who held B shares. The programme is being reintroduced
with effect from the first quarter 2015 interim dividend onwards.
The tax consequences of electing to receive new A shares in place of
a cash dividend depended on individual circumstances.
More information about the programme, including the taxation
consequences, can be found at www.shell.com/scrip.
Dutch capital gai ns taxatio n
Capital gains on the sale of shares of a Dutch tax-resident company by
a US holder are generally not subject to taxation by the Netherlands
unless the US shareholder has a permanent establishment therein and
the capital gain is derived from the sale of shares that are part of the
business property of the permanent establishment.
Dutch successio n duty a ndg iftt a x e s
Shares of a Dutch tax-resident company held by an individual who is
not a resident or a deemed resident of the Netherlands will generally
not be subject to succession duty in the Netherlands on the individual’s
death unless the shares are part of the business property of a
permanent establishment situated in the Netherlands.
A gift of shares of a Dutch tax-resident company by an individual, who
is not a resident or a deemed resident of the Netherlands, is generally
not subject to Dutch gift tax.
UK sta mpd u t yands t amp duty reserve tax
Sales or transfers of the Company’s ordinary shares within a clearance
service (such as Euroclear Nederland) or of the Company’s ADSs
within the ADS depositary receipts system will not give rise to a stamp
duty reserve tax (SDRT) liability and should not in practice require the
payment of UK stamp duty.
The transfer of the Company’s ordinary shares to a clearance service
(such as Euroclear Nederland) or to an issuer of depositary shares
(such as ADSs) will generally give rise to a UK stamp duty or SDRT
liability at the rate of 1.5% of consideration given or, if none, of the
value of the shares. A sale of the Company’s ordinary shares that are
not held within a clearance service (for example, settled through the
UK’s CREST system of paperless transfers) will generally be subject to
UK stamp duty or SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount of the
consideration, normally paid by the purchaser.
Capital gai nst a x
For the purposes of UK capital gains tax, the market values [A] of the
shares of the former public parent companies of the Royal Dutch/Shell
Group at the relevant dates were:
£
March 31, 1982 July 20, 2005
Royal Dutch Petroleum Company
(N.V. Koninklijke Nederlandsche
Petroleum Maatschappij) which
ceased to exist on December 21, 2005 1.1349 17.6625
The “Shell” Transport and Trading
Company, p.l.c. which delisted on
July 19, 2005 1.4502 Not applicable
[A] Restated where applicable to reflect all capitalisation issues since the relevant date. This
includes the change in the capital structure in 2005, when Royal Dutch Shell plc became the
single parent company of Royal Dutch Petrole um Company and of The “Shell” Transport and
Trading Company, p.l.c., now The Shell Trans port and Trading Company Limited, and one
share in Royal Dutch Petroleum Company was exchanged for two Royal Dutch Shell plc A
shares and one share in The “Shell” Transpor t and Trading Company, p.l.c. was exchanged
for 0.287333066 Royal Dutch Shell plc B shares.
SECTION 13(r) OF THE US
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934 DISCLOSURE
In accordance with our General Business Principles and Code of
Conduct, Shell seeks to comply with all applicable international trade
laws including applicable sanctions and embargoes.
The activities listed below have been conducted outside the USA by
non-US Shell subsidiaries. None of the payments disclosed below
were made in US dollars, however, for disclosure purposes, all have
been converted into US dollars at the appropriate exchange rate. We
do not believe that any of the transactions or activities listed below
violated US sanctions.
In 2010, we ceased all of our Upstream commercial activities in Iran
and suspended new business development, as a direct consequence
of the international sanctions imposed on the country.
In 2013, we closed our small representative office in Iran. In 2014,
we paid $6,140 to the Iranian Ministry of Finance, consisting of a
final settlement of corporate income tax related to the financial year
ended December 31, 2007, an income tax penalty payment related
to the financial year ended December 31, 2011, and stamp duties.
These payments were made through cheques guaranteed by Bank
Karafarin, where we maintain accounts. These transactions did not
generate gross revenue or net profit. However, our cash deposits in
Bank Karafarin (balance of $3.1 million at December 31, 2014)
generated non-taxable interest income of $0.5 million in 2014. In the
future, we expect to make additional payments as a result of the
ongoing liquidation process, including tax payments.
Payments to the Iranian Civil Aviation Authority for the clearance of
overflight permits for Shell Aircraft over Iranian airspace amounted to
$5,960 in 2014. There was no gross revenue or net profit associated
with these transactions. On occasion, our aircraft may be routed over
Iran and therefore these payments may continue in the future.
An amount of $202 was paid to the Consulate of Iran in the UK,
relating to a British citizen, born in Iran, who was relocating with her
Shell-employed spouse to the United Arab Emirates. The costs were for
duplicates of birth certificates and other documents required to obtain
a residence permit in the United Arab Emirates. This transaction
generated no gross revenue or net profit, and is in accordance with
Shell’s expatriate policy.
In Downstream, through our subsidiary Deheza S.A.I.C.F.eI., we
provided retail services in August 2014 to the Iranian embassy in
Argentina (Embajada de la República Islámica de Irán). This
transaction generated a gross revenue of $63 and an estimated net
profit of $6. We have no contractual agreement with this embassy.
At December 31, 2014, we have $2,164 million payable to, and
$12 million receivable from, the National Iranian Oil Company. The
payable amount decreased by $265 million during 2014 as a result
of currency movements. There was no change in the principal amount.
We are unable to settle the payable position as a result of applicable
sanctions.

186 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
NON-GAAP MEASURES RECONCILIATIONS SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
NON-GAAP MEASURES RECONCILIATIONS
NET CAPITAL INVESTMENT
RECONCILIATION OF NET CAPITAL INVESTMENT TO NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES $ MILLION
2014 2013
Net capital investment
Upstream 20,704 39,217
Downstream 3,079 4,885
Corporate 116 201
Total 23,899 44,303
Exploration expense, excludinge x p l o r a t i on wells written off (2,244) (2,506)
Finance leases (2,124) (1,323)
Other 126 (328)
Net cash used in investing activities 19,657 40,146
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
RECONCILIATION OF CAPITAL INVESTMENT TO CAPITAL EXPENDITURE $ MILLION
2014 2013
Capital investment
Upstream 31,293 40,303
Downstream 5,910 5,528
Corporate 136 210
Total 37,339 46,041
Investments in jointv entures and associates (1,426) (1,538)
Exploration expense, excludinge x p l o r a t i on wells written off (2,244) (2,506)
Finance leases (2,124) (1,323)
Other 309 (529)
Capital expenditure 31,854 40,145

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 187
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 INDEX TO THE EXHIBITS
INDEX TO THE EXHIBITS
Exhibit No. Description Page
1.1 Memorandum of Association of Royal Dutch Shell plc, together with a special resolution of Royal Dutch Shell plc dated May 18,
2010, (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to the Registration Statement on Form F-3 (No. 333-177588) of Royal Dutch
Shell plc filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission on October 28, 2011).
1.2 Articles of Association of Royal Dutch Shell plc, together with a special resolution of Royal Dutch Shell plc dated May 18, 2010,
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.11 to the Registration Statement on Form F-3 (No. 333-177588) of Royal Dutch Shell plc
filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission on October 28, 2011).
2 Dividend Access Trust Deed (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to the Annual Report for fiscal year ended December 31,
2006, on Form 20-F (File No. 001-32575) of Royal Dutch Shell plc filed with the US Securit ies and Exchange Commission on
March 13, 2007).
4.1 Shell Provident Fund Regulations and Trust Agreement (incorp orated by reference to Exhibit 4. 7 to the Post-Effective Amendment
to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (N o. 333-126715) of Royal Dutch Shell plc filed with the US Securities and Exchange
Commission on June 18, 2007).
4.2 Form of Director Indemnity Agreement (incorporated by refe rence to Exhibit 4.3 to the Annual Report for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2005, on Form 20-F (File No. 001-32575) of Royal Du tch Shell plc filed with the US Securities and Exchange
Commission on March 13, 2006).
4.3 Senior Debt Securities Indenture dated June 27, 2006, among Shel l International Finance B.V., as issuer, Royal Dutch Shell plc,
as guarantor, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the
Registration Statement on Form F-3 (No. 333-126726) of Ro yal Dutch Shell plc filed with the US Securities and Exchange
Commission on July 20, 2005, amended from then to be dated as of June 27, 2006, and with the parties signatures).
4.4 Form of contract of employment for Executive Directors (incor porated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Annual Report for fiscal
year ended December 31, 2013, on Form 20-F (File No. 001-32575) of Royal Dutch Shell plc filed with the US Securities and
Exchange Commission on March 13, 2014).
4.5 Form of Letter of appointments for Non-executive Directors (inc orporated by reference to Exhibit 4.11 to the Annual Report for
fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, on Form 20-F (File No. 001-3 2575) of Royal Dutch Shell plc filed with the US Securities
and Exchange Commission on March 13, 2007).
7.1 Calculation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. E1
7.2 Calculation of Return on Average Capital Employed (ROACE) (incorporated by reference to page 51 herein).
7.3 Calculation of gearing (incorporated by reference to page 21 and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on
page 124 herein).
8 Significant Shell subsidiaries as at December 31, 2014. E2
12.1 Section 302 Certification of Royal Dutch Shell plc. E4
12.2 Section 302 Certification of Royal Dutch Shell plc. E5
13.1 Section 906 Certification of Royal Dutch Shell plc. E6
99.1 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, London. E7
99.2 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers CI LLP, Jersey, Channel I slands, relating to the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust. E8

188 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
SIGNATURES SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
SIGNATURES
The registrant hereby certifies that it meets all of the requirements for filing on Form 20-F and that it has duly caused and authorised the
undersigned to sign the Annual Report on Form 20-F on its behalf.
Royal Dutch Shell plc
/s/ Ben van Beurden
Ben van Beurde n
Chief Executive Officer
March 11, 2015

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION E1
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 EXHIBIT 7.1
EXHIBIT 7.1
CALCULATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES $ MILLION
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Pre-tax income from continuingo p e r a t i ons
before income from equity investees 22,198 26,317 41,564 46,806 29,391
Total fixed charges 2,113 1,710 1,712 1,608 1,684
Distributed income from equity investees 6,902 7,117 10,573 9,681 6,519
Less: interest capitalised 757 762 567 674 969
Total earnings 30,456 34,382 53,282 57,421 36,625
Interest expensed and capitalised 1,522 1,412 1,461 1,209 1,218
Interest within rental expense 591 298 251 399 466
Total fixed charges 2,113 1,710 1,712 1,608 1,684
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 14.41 20.11 31.12 35.71 21.75

E2 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
EXHIBIT 8 SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
EXHIBIT 8
SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES (AUDITED)
Significant subsidiaries a t December 31, 2014, and Shell’s percentag e of share capital (to the nearest wh ole number) are set out below. All of
these subsidiaries have been included in the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on page s 106-141. Those held directly by the Company are
marked with an asterisk (*). A complete list of investments in subsidiaries, incorporated joint arrangements and associates will be attached to the
Company’s annual return made to the Registrar of Companies.
Company name% C o u ntry of incorporation Principal activities Class o f shares held
Shell Australia Pty Ltd 100 Australia Upstream Ordinary
Shell Energy Holdings Australia Limited 100 Australia Upstream Ordinary, redeemable [A]
Qatar Shell GTL Limited 100 Bermuda Upstream Ordinary
Tacoma Company Limited 100 Bermuda Upstream Ordinary
Shell Brasil Petroleo Ltda 100 Brazil Upstream Quotas (Voting)
Shell Canada Energy 100 Canada Upstream Ordinary
Shell Gabon SA 75 Gabon Upstream Ordinary
Shell Italia E&P Spa 100 Italy Upstream Ordinary
Sarawak Shell Berhad 100 Malaysia Upstream Ordinary
Shell Kazakhstan Development B.V. 100 Netherla nds Upstream Redeemable [A], non-redeemable
Shell Olie – OG Gasudvinding Danmark B.V. 100 Netherlands Upstream Ordinary
Shell Philippines Exploration B.V. 100 Netherlands Upstream Redeemable [A], non-redeemable
Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company Limited 100 Nigeria Upstream Ordinary
The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited 100 Nigeria Upstream Ordinary
A/S Norske Shell 100 Norway Upstream Ordinary
Enterprise Oil Limited 100 UK Upstream Ordinary
Shell U.K. Limited 100 UK Upstream Ordinary
Enterprise Oil North America Inc. 100 USA Upstream Ordinary
Shell Gulf of Mexico Inc. 100 USA Upstream Ordinary
Shell Offshore Inc 100 USA Upstream Ordinary
Shell US E&P Investments LLC 100 USA Upstream Equity (Voting)
SOI Finance Inc. 100 USA Upstream Ordinary
SWEPI LP 100 USA Upstream Partnership Capital
Shell Compania Argentina De Petroleo S.A. 100 Argentina Downstream Nominative
Shell Western Supply & Trading Limited 100 Barbados Downstream Ordinary
Shell International Trading Middle East Limited 100 Bermuda Downstream Ordinary
Shell Canada Limited 100 Canada Downstream Ordinary, redeemable [A]
Shell Canada Products 100 Canada Downstream Ordinary
Deutsche Shell GmbH 100 Germany Downstream Ordinary
Deutsche Shell Holding GmbH 100 Germany Downstream Ordinary
Shell Deutschland Oil GmbH 100 Germany Downstream Ordinary
Shell Luxembourgeoise Sarl 100 Luxembourg Downstream Ordinary
Shell Nederland Raffinaderij B.V. 100 Netherlands Downstream Ordinary
Shell Trading Rotterdam B.V. 100 Netherlands Downstream Ordinary
Shell Eastern Petroleum (Pte) Limited 100 Singapore Downstream Ordinary, redeemable
Shell Eastern Trading (Pte) Limited 100 Singapore Downstream Ordinary, redeemable
Shell Energy Europe Limited 100 UK Downstream Ordinary
Shell Trading International Limited 100 UK Downstream Ordinary
Equilon Enterprises LLC 100 USA Downstream Membership Interest
SCOGI, G.P. 100 USA Downstream Equity
Shell Chemical LP 100 USA Downstream Partnership Capital
Shell Energy North America (US), LP 100 USA Downstream Partnership Capital
Shell Trading (US) Company 100 USA Downstream Ordinary
SOPC Holdings East LLC 100 USA Downstream Membership Interest
SOPC Holdings West LLC 100 USA Downstream Ordinary
TMR Company 100 USA Downstream Ordinary
[A] Non-voting class of share.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION E3
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 EXHIBIT 8
Company name% C o u ntry of incorporation Principal activities Class o f shares held
Shell Oman Trading Limited 100 Bermuda Corporate Ordinary
Solen Insurance Limited 100 Bermuda Corporate Ordinary
Shell Finance Luxembourg Sarl 100 Luxembourg Corporate Ordinary
Shell Treasury Luxembourg Sarl 100 Luxembourg Corporate Ordinary
B.V. Dordtsche Petroleum Maatschappij 100 Netherlands Corporate Ordinary
Shell Brazil Holding B.V. 100 Netherlands Corporate Ordinary
Shell Finance (Netherlands) B.V. 100 Netherlands Corporate Ordinary
Shell Gas B.V. 100 Netherlands Corporate Ordinary
Shell International Finance B.V.* 100 Netherlands Corporate Ordinary
Shell Nederland B.V. 100 Netherlands Corporate Ordinary
Shell Overseas Investments B.V. 100 Netherlands Corporate Ordinary
Shell Petroleum N.V.* 100 Netherlands Corporate Ordinary
Shell Treasury Centre East (Pte) Limited 100 Singapore Corporate Ordinary
Shell Finance Switzerland AG 100 Switzerland Corporate Ordinary
Solen Versicherungen AG 100 Switzerland Corporate Registered (Voting)
Shell Energy Investments Limited 100 UK Corporate Ordinary
Shell Holdings (U.K.) Limited 100 UK Corporate Ordinary
Shell Overseas Holdings Limited 100 UK Corporate Ordinary
Shell Treasury Centre Limited 100 UK Corporate Ordinary
Shell Treasury Dollar Company Limited 100 UK Corporate Ordinary, redeemable
Shell Treasury U.K. Limited 100 UK Corporate Ordinary
The Shell Petroleum Company Limited 100 UK Corporate Ordinary
The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited 100 UK Corporate Ordinary, redeemable
Pecten Victoria Company 100 USA Corporate Ordinary
Shell Oil Company 100 USA Corporate Ordinary
Shell Petroleum Inc. 100 USA Corporate Ordinary

E4 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
EXHIBIT 12.1 SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
EXHIBIT 12.1
I, Ben van Beurden,c e r t ifyt h a t :
1. I have reviewed the Annual Report on Form 20-F of Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Company);
2. Based on my knowledge, the report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
the report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in the report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and for, the periods presented in the report;
4. The Company’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establis hing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d -15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the Company and have:
/H18546designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such discl osure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which the report is being prepared;
/H18546designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
/H18546evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls a nd procedures and presented in the report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the e nd of the period covered by the report based on such evaluation; and
/H18546disclosed in the report any change in the Company’s internal control ov er financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by the
annual report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to mater ially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
5. The Company’s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
the Company’s auditors and the audit committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):
/H18546all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or oper ation of internal control over financ ial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the Company’s ability to record, process, summarise and report financial information; and
/H18546any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other e mployees who have a significant role in the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting.
/s/ Ben van Beurden
Ben van Beurde n
Chief Executive Officer
March 11, 2015

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION E5
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 EXHIBIT 12.2
EXHIBIT 12.2
I, Simon Henry, certifyt h a t :
1. I have reviewed the Annual Report on Form 20-F of Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Company);
2. Based on my knowledge, the report does not contain any untrue stateme nt of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such sta tements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
the report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in the report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and for, the periods presented in the report;
4. The Company’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establis hing and maintaining disclosure cont rols and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d -15(e)) and internal control over financial repor ting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the Company and have:
/H18546designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disc losure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which the report is being prepared;
/H18546designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
/H18546evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls a nd procedures and presented in the report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the e nd of the period covered by the report based on such evaluation; and
/H18546disclosed in the report any change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by the
annual report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to mat erially affect, the Company’s interna l control over financial reporting.
5. The Company’s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
the Company’s auditors and the audit committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):
/H18546all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the Company’s ability to record, process, summarise and report financial information; and
/H18546any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other e mployees who have a significant role in the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting.
/s/ Simon Henry
Simon Henry
Chief Financial Officer
March 11, 2015

E6 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
EXHIBIT 13.1 SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
EXHIBIT 13.1
In connection with the Annual Report on Form 20- F of Royal Dutch Shell plc (the Company) for the year ended December 31, 2014, as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), each of the undersigned officers of the Company certify pursuant to
18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the S arbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to such officer’s knowledge, that:
1. The Report fully complies, in all material respects, with the requir ements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Compan y
as of, and for, the periods presented in the Report.
The foregoing certification is provided solel y for purposes of complying with the provision s of Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
and is not intended to be used or relied upon for any other purpose.
/s/ Ben van Beurden
Ben van Beurden
Chief Executive Officer
/s/ Simon Henry
Simon Henry
Chief Financial Officer
March 11, 2015

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION E7
SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014 EXHIBIT 99.1
EXHIBIT 99.1
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We hereby consent to the incorporation by r eference in the Registration Statement on Form F-3 (No. 333-199736) and the Registration
Statements on Form S-8 (No. 333-126715, 333-141397, 333-171206, 333- 192821 and 333-200953) of Royal Dutch Shell plc of our
report dated March 11, 2015, relating to t he Consolidated Financial Stateme nts and the effectiveness of interna l control over financial reporting,
which appears in this Annual Report on Form 20-F.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
London
March 11, 2015

E8 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
EXHIBIT 99.2 SHELL ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2014
EXHIBIT 99.2
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We hereby consent to the incorpor ation by reference in the Regis tration Statement on Form F-3 ( No. 333-199736) and the Registration
Statements on Form S-8 (No. 333-126715, 333-141397, 333-171206, 333- 192821 and 333-200953) of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend
Access Trust of our report dated March 11, 2015, relating to the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend A ccess Trust Financial Statements, and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Annual Report on Form 20-F.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers CI LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers CI LLP
Jersey, Channel Islands
March 11, 2015

REGISTERED OFFICE
Royal Dutch Shell plc
Shell Centre 
London SE1 7NA 
United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales
Company number 4366849
Registered with the Dutch Trade Register
under number 34179503
HEADQUARTERS
Royal Dutch Shell plc
Carel van Bylandtlaan 30
2596 HR The Hague
The Netherlands
SHARE REGISTRATION
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
0800 169 1679 (UK)
+44 (0)121 415 7073
 For online information about your  
holding and to change the way you receive your 
company documents:
  www.shareview.co.uk 
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Royal Dutch Shell plc
PO Box 162
2501 AN The Hague  
The Netherlands 
+31 (0)70 377 4540 
or
Shell Oil Company 
Investor Relations
150 N Dairy Ashford
Houston, TX 77079 
USA
+1 832 337 2034
ir-europe@shell.com
ir-usa@shell.com
www.shell.com/investor
REPORT ORDERING
order@shell.com
Annual Report/20-F service for US residents
+1 888 301 0504
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS
Royal Dutch Shell plc
Carel van Bylandtlaan 30
2596 HR The Hague  
The Netherlands 
+31 (0)70 377 1365 
+31 (0)70 377 4088
+31 (0)70 377 3953 (fax)
or
Royal Dutch Shell plc
Shell Centre  
London SE1 7NA
United Kingdom
+44 (0)20 7934 3363
+44 (0)20 7934 7515 (fax)
royaldutchshell.shareholders@shell.com
www.shell.com/shareholder
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY 
SHARES (ADSs)
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
PO Box 30170
College Station, TX 77842-3170
USA
Overnight corres pondence to: 
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services 
211 Quality Circle, Suite 210
College Station, TX 77845 
USA
+1 888 737 2377 (USA)
+1 201 680 6825 (international)
shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com
www.mybnymdr.com
FINANCIAL CALENDAR IN 2015
The Annual General Meeting will be held on May 19, 2015.
2014 Fourth  
quarter [A] 
2015 First  
quarter [B] 
2015 Second  
quarter [B] 
2015 Third  
quarter [B] 
Results announcements January 29 Ap ril 30 July 30 Octobe r 29
Interim dividend timetable
Announcement date January 29 [C] Ap ril 30 July 30 Octobe r 29
Ex-dividend date A and B ADSs [D] February 11 May 13 August 12 Nove mber 10
Ex-dividend date A and B shares [D] February 12 May 14 August 13 Nove mber 12
Record date February 13 May 15 August 14 Nove mber 13
February 27 Ju ne 1 August 28 Nove mber 27
March 6 Ju ne 8 Septe mber 4 Dece mber 4
Payment date March 20 Ju ne 22 Septe mber 21 Dece mber 18
[A] In respect of the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, 2014.
[B] In respect of the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, 2015.
[C] The Directors do not propose to recommend any further distribution in respect of 2014.
[D] The London Stock Exchange and Euronext Amsterdam, with effect from October 6, 2014, reduced the standard settlement cycle in accordance with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the 
Council on improving securities settlement in the European Union (EU) and on Central Securities Depositories (CSDs) and amending Directive 98/26/EC (the CSD Regulation). The CSD Regulation aims to 
harmonise EU securities settlement cycles towards a T + 2 cycle. As a result, the ex-dividend dates for A and B shares traded on these markets are one trading day later than A ADSs and B ADSs traded in  
the USA. Record dates are not affected.
[E] A different currency election date may apply to shareholders holding shares in a securities account with a bank or ﬁnancial  institution ultimately holding through Euroclear Nederland. Such shareholders  
can obtain the applicable deadlines from their broker, ﬁnancial intermediary, bank or ﬁnancial institution where they hold their securities account.
Closing date for currency election [E]
Euro and sterling equivalents announcement date

Company news
Interactive stories about innovation
Service-station locations
Download our apps at 
www.shell.com/mobile_and_apps
All our reports are available  
at http://reports.shell.com
Comprehensive ﬁnancial information  
on our activities throughout 2014
Detailed operational information 
including maps
Report on our progress in contributing  
to sustainable development
 Follow @Shell on Twitter
 www.facebook.com/shell
Check our latest news
