Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2022Shell plc
#PoweringProgress
Powering 
Progress
Shell plc
Annual Report 
and Accounts
for the year ended 
December 31, 2022

Contents
Introduction
iii About this Report
iv Terms and abbreviations
Strategic Report
2 Chair's message
4 Chief Executive Officer's review
6 Powering Progress strategy
15 Risk factors
27 Progress on strategy – year in review
27 Performance indicators
29 Generating shareholder value
29 Group results
31 Financial framework
35 Market overview
38 Integrated Gas
44 Upstream
52 Oil and gas information
60 Marketing
65 Chemicals and Products
73 Renewables and Energy Solutions
77 Corporate
78 Our journey to net zero
106 Respecting nature
112 Powering lives
121 Safety
125 Principal decisions & stakeholders (Section 
172(1) statement)
Governance
133 The Board of Shell plc
142 Senior management
144 Introduction from the Chair
147 Statement of compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code
148 Governance framework
150 Board activities
153 Board evaluation
154 Understanding and engaging with our 
stakeholders
157 Workforce engagement
159 Nomination and Succession Committee
163 Safety, Environment and Sustainability 
Committee
165 Audit Committee Report
178 Directors' Remuneration Report
183 Annual Report on Remuneration
203 Directors' Remuneration Policy
211 Other regulatory and statutory information
Financial Statements and Supplements
221 Independent Auditor's Report related to the 
Consolidated and Parent Company Financial 
Statements
237 Consolidated Financial Statements
308 Supplementary information - oil and gas 
(unaudited)
327 Supplementary information - EU Taxonomy 
disclosure
340 Parent Company Financial Statements
350 Independent Auditor's Report related to the 
Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust 
Financial Statements
352 Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust 
Financial Statements
Additional Information
358 Shareholder information
362 Non-GAAP measures reconciliations
367 Appendix 1: Significant subsidiaries and other 
related undertakings (audited)
388 Appendix 2: Five-year financial dataset
Design and 
production: Friend  
www.friendstudio.com
Print: Toppan MerrillReports are available in  
all inclusive formats at  
Shell.com/annual-publications
Reporting for all
ii Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The Shell plc Annual Report (this "Report") serves as the Annual Report 
and Accounts in accordance with UK requirements for the year ended 
December 31, 2022, for Shell plc (the "Company") and its subsidiaries 
(collectively referred to as "Shell"). This Report presents the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of Shell (pages 237-307), the Parent Company 
Financial Statements of Shell (pages 340-349) and the Financial 
Statements of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust (pages 
352-356). Except for these Financial Statements, the numbers presented 
throughout this Report may not sum precisely to the totals provided 
and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures due 
to rounding.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of Shell plc and its subsidiaries 
contained in this Report have been prepared in accordance with 
international accounting standards in conformity with the requirements 
of the UK Companies Act 2006 (the "Act"), and therefore in accordance 
with UK-adopted international accounting standards. As applied to Shell, 
there are no material differences from International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB); therefore, the Consolidated Financial Statements have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. IFRS as 
defined above includes interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations 
Committee. Financial reporting terms used in this Report are in 
accordance with IFRS. 
This Report contains certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures such 
as cash capital expenditure. We are unable to provide a reconciliation 
of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most comparable 
GAAP financial measures because certain information needed to 
reconcile those non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP 
financial measures is dependent on future events some of which are 
outside the control of Shell, such as oil and gas prices, interest rates and 
exchange rates. Moreover, estimating such GAAP measures with the 
required precision necessary to provide a meaningful reconciliation is 
extremely difficult and could not be accomplished without unreasonable 
effort. Non-GAAP measures in respect of future periods which cannot 
be reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measure are 
calculated in a manner which is consistent with the accounting policies 
applied in Shell plc’s consolidated financial statements. 
The entities in which Shell plc directly or indirectly owns investments 
are separate legal entities. In addition to the term "Shell", in this Report 
"Shell Group", "Group", "we", "us" and "our" are also used to refer to the 
Company and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. 
These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying 
the particular entity or entities. "Subsidiaries", "Shell subsidiaries" and 
"Shell companies" refer to those entities over which the Company has 
control, either directly or indirectly. Entities and unincorporated 
arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to 
as "joint ventures" and "joint operations", respectively. "Joint ventures" 
and "joint operations" are collectively referred to as "joint arrangements". 
Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor 
joint control are referred to as "associates". The term "Shell interest" is 
used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership 
interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, 
after exclusion of all third-party interest. Shell subsidiaries’ data include 
their interests in joint operations. 
As used in this Report, "Accountable" is intended to mean: required or 
expected to justify actions or decisions. The Accountable person does not 
necessarily implement the action or decision (implementation is usually 
carried out by the person who is Responsible) but must organise the 
implementation and verify that the action has been carried out as 
required. This includes obtaining requisite assurance from Shell companies 
that the framework is operating effectively. "Responsible" is intended to 
mean: required or expected to implement actions or decisions. Each Shell 
company and Shell-operated venture is responsible for its operational 
performance and compliance with the Shell General Business Principles, 
Code of Conduct, Statement on Risk Management and Risk Manual, 
and Standards and Manuals. This includes responsibility for the 
operationalisation and implementation of Shell Group strategies 
and policies.
Shell’s operating plan, outlook and budgets are forecasted for a 10-year 
period and are updated every year. They reflect the current economic 
environment and what we can reasonably expect to see over the next ten 
years. Accordingly, they reflect our Scope 1, Scope 2 and NCI targets 
over the next 10 years. However, Shell’s operating plans cannot reflect 
our 2050 net-zero emissions target and 2035 NCI target, as these 
targets are currently outside our planning period. In the future, as society 
moves towards net-zero emissions, we expect Shell’s operating plans to 
reflect this movement. However, if society is not net zero in 2050 as of 
today, there would significant risk that Shell may not meet this target. 
Shell’s "Net Carbon Intensity" referred to in this Report include Shell’s 
carbon emissions from the production of our energy products, our 
suppliers’ carbon emissions in supplying energy for that production, and 
our customers’ carbon emissions associated with their use of the energy 
products we sell. Shell only controls its own emissions. The use of the 
term "Net Carbon Intensity" is for convenience only and not intended 
to suggest these emissions are those of Shell plc or its subsidiaries. 
Except where indicated, the figures shown in the tables in this Report are 
in respect of subsidiaries only, without deduction of any non-controlling 
interest. However, the term "Shell share" is used for convenience to refer 
to the volumes of hydrocarbons that are produced, processed or sold 
through subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. All of a subsidiary’s 
production, processing or sales volumes (including the share of joint 
operations) are included in the Shell share, even if Shell owns less than 
100% of the subsidiary. In the case of joint ventures and associates, 
however, Shell-share figures are limited only to Shell’s entitlement. In 
all cases, royalty payments in kind are deducted from the Shell share. 
Except where indicated, the figures shown in this Report are stated in 
US dollars. As used herein all references to "dollars" or "$" are to the 
US currency. 
This Report contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial 
condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All statements 
other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, 
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of 
future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations 
and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties 
that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially 
from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking 
statements include, among other things, statements concerning the 
potential exposure of Shell to market risks and statements expressing 
management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and 
assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use 
of terms and phrases such as "aim", "ambition", "anticipate", "believe", 
"could", "estimate", "expect", "goals", "intend", "may", "milestones", 
"objectives", "outlook", "plan", "probably", "project", "risks", "schedule", 
"seek", "should", "target", "will" and similar terms and phrases. There are 
a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell and 
could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the 
forward-looking statements included in this Report, including (without 
limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes 
in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and 
production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and 
industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks 
associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition 
properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such 
transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and 
countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, judicial, fiscal 
and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing 
climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various 
countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation 
and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, 
delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the 
reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of 
pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) 
changes in trading conditions. Also see "Risk factors" on pages 15-26 for 
additional risks and further discussion. No assurance is provided that 
future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend 
payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this Report are 
expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements 
contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue 
About this Report
iii Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement 
speaks only as of the date of this Report. Neither the Company nor any of 
its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any 
forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or 
other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from 
those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements 
contained in this Report. 
Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
This Report contains references to Shell’s website, the Shell Sustainability 
Report, Energy Transition Progress Report, Tax Contribution Report, 
Industry Associations Climate Review and our report on Payments to 
Governments. These references are for the readers’ convenience only. 
Shell is not incorporating by reference into this Report any information 
posted on www.shell.com or in the Shell Sustainability Report, Tax 
Contribution Report, Industry Associations Climate Review or our report 
on Payments to Governments. The content of any other websites referred 
to in this Report does not form part of this Report. 
With effect from January 29, 2022, Shell’s A shares and B shares 
were assimilated into a single line of ordinary shares. Shell’s A and B 
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) were assimilated into a single line 
of ADSs on the same date. This Report continues to refer to A shares, 
B shares, A ADSs and B ADSs when describing the position prior to 
January 29, 2022.
Shell V-Power and Shell LiveWire are Shell trademarks. 
Documents on display 
This Report is also available, free of charge, at www.shell.com/
annualreport or at the offices of Shell in London, United Kingdom and 
The Hague, the Netherlands. Copies of this Report also may be obtained, 
free of charge, by mail.
Terms and abbreviations
Currencies
 
$ US dollar
€ euro
£ sterling
Units of measurement
 
acre approximately 0.004 square kilometres
b(/d) barrels (per day)
boe(/d) barrels of oil equivalent (per day); natural gas volumes are 
converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf 
per barrel
GW gigawatt
kboe(/d) thousand barrels of oil equivalent (per day); natural gas 
volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor 
of 5,800 scf per barrel
kWh kilowatt-hours
megajoule a unit of energy equal to one million joules
MMBtu million British thermal units
mb/d million barrels per day
mtpa million tonnes per annum
MW megawatt
MWh megawatt hours
per day volumes are converted into a daily basis using a calendar year
scf(/d) standard cubic feet (per day)
TWh terawatt hours
Products
 
GTL gas-to-liquids
LNG liquefied natural gas
LPG liquefied petroleum gas
NGL natural gas liquids
Miscellaneous
ADS American Depositary Share
AGM Annual General Meeting
API American Petroleum Institute
CCS carbon capture and storage
CCS earnings earnings on a current cost of supplies basis
CMF carbon management framework
CO
2 carbon dioxide
EMTN Euro medium-term note
EPS earnings per share
FCF free cash flow
FID final investment decision
GAAP generally accepted accounting principles
GHG greenhouse gas
HSSE health, safety, security and environment
IAS International Accounting Standards
IEA International Energy Agency
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard(s)
IPIECA International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation 
Association 
IOGP International Association of Oil & Gas Producers
LTIP Long-term Incentive Plan
NCF Net Carbon Footprint
NCI net carbon intensity
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
OML oil mining lease
OPEC Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
OPL oil prospecting licence
PSC production-sharing contract
PSP Performance Share Plan
REMCO Remuneration Committee
RT real terms
SEC US Securities and Exchange Commission
TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
TRCF total recordable case frequency
TSR total shareholder return
WTI West Texas Intermediate
About this Report continued
The Shell plc Annual Report (this "Report") serves as the Annual Report 
and Accounts in accordance with UK requirements for the year ended 
December 31, 2022, for Shell plc (the "Company") and its subsidiaries 
(collectively referred to as "Shell"). This Report presents the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of Shell (pages 237-307), the Parent Company 
Financial Statements of Shell (pages 340-349) and the Financial 
Statements of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust (pages 
352-356). Except for these Financial Statements, the numbers presented 
throughout this Report may not sum precisely to the totals provided 
and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures due 
to rounding.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of Shell plc and its subsidiaries 
contained in this Report have been prepared in accordance with 
international accounting standards in conformity with the requirements 
of the UK Companies Act 2006 (the "Act"), and therefore in accordance 
with UK-adopted international accounting standards. As applied to Shell, 
there are no material differences from International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB); therefore, the Consolidated Financial Statements have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. IFRS as 
defined above includes interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations 
Committee. Financial reporting terms used in this Report are in 
accordance with IFRS. 
This Report contains certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures such 
as cash capital expenditure. We are unable to provide a reconciliation 
of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most comparable 
GAAP financial measures because certain information needed to 
reconcile those non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP 
financial measures is dependent on future events some of which are 
outside the control of Shell, such as oil and gas prices, interest rates and 
exchange rates. Moreover, estimating such GAAP measures with the 
required precision necessary to provide a meaningful reconciliation is 
extremely difficult and could not be accomplished without unreasonable 
effort. Non-GAAP measures in respect of future periods which cannot 
be reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measure are 
calculated in a manner which is consistent with the accounting policies 
applied in Shell plc’s consolidated financial statements. 
The entities in which Shell plc directly or indirectly owns investments 
are separate legal entities. In addition to the term "Shell", in this Report 
"Shell Group", "Group", "we", "us" and "our" are also used to refer to the 
Company and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. 
These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying 
the particular entity or entities. "Subsidiaries", "Shell subsidiaries" and 
"Shell companies" refer to those entities over which the Company has 
control, either directly or indirectly. Entities and unincorporated 
arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to 
as "joint ventures" and "joint operations", respectively. "Joint ventures" 
and "joint operations" are collectively referred to as "joint arrangements". 
Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor 
joint control are referred to as "associates". The term "Shell interest" is 
used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership 
interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, 
after exclusion of all third-party interest. Shell subsidiaries’ data include 
their interests in joint operations. 
As used in this Report, "Accountable" is intended to mean: required or 
expected to justify actions or decisions. The Accountable person does not 
necessarily implement the action or decision (implementation is usually 
carried out by the person who is Responsible) but must organise the 
implementation and verify that the action has been carried out as 
required. This includes obtaining requisite assurance from Shell companies 
that the framework is operating effectively. "Responsible" is intended to 
mean: required or expected to implement actions or decisions. Each Shell 
company and Shell-operated venture is responsible for its operational 
performance and compliance with the Shell General Business Principles, 
Code of Conduct, Statement on Risk Management and Risk Manual, 
and Standards and Manuals. This includes responsibility for the 
operationalisation and implementation of Shell Group strategies 
and policies.
Shell’s operating plan, outlook and budgets are forecasted for a 10-year 
period and are updated every year. They reflect the current economic 
environment and what we can reasonably expect to see over the next ten 
years. Accordingly, they reflect our Scope 1, Scope 2 and NCI targets 
over the next 10 years. However, Shell’s operating plans cannot reflect 
our 2050 net-zero emissions target and 2035 NCI target, as these 
targets are currently outside our planning period. In the future, as society 
moves towards net-zero emissions, we expect Shell’s operating plans to 
reflect this movement. However, if society is not net zero in 2050 as of 
today, there would significant risk that Shell may not meet this target. 
Shell’s "Net Carbon Intensity" referred to in this Report include Shell’s 
carbon emissions from the production of our energy products, our 
suppliers’ carbon emissions in supplying energy for that production, and 
our customers’ carbon emissions associated with their use of the energy 
products we sell. Shell only controls its own emissions. The use of the 
term "Net Carbon Intensity" is for convenience only and not intended 
to suggest these emissions are those of Shell plc or its subsidiaries. 
Except where indicated, the figures shown in the tables in this Report are 
in respect of subsidiaries only, without deduction of any non-controlling 
interest. However, the term "Shell share" is used for convenience to refer 
to the volumes of hydrocarbons that are produced, processed or sold 
through subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. All of a subsidiary’s 
production, processing or sales volumes (including the share of joint 
operations) are included in the Shell share, even if Shell owns less than 
100% of the subsidiary. In the case of joint ventures and associates, 
however, Shell-share figures are limited only to Shell’s entitlement. In 
all cases, royalty payments in kind are deducted from the Shell share. 
Except where indicated, the figures shown in this Report are stated in 
US dollars. As used herein all references to "dollars" or "$" are to the 
US currency. 
This Report contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial 
condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All statements 
other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, 
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of 
future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations 
and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties 
that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially 
from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking 
statements include, among other things, statements concerning the 
potential exposure of Shell to market risks and statements expressing 
management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and 
assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use 
of terms and phrases such as "aim", "ambition", "anticipate", "believe", 
"could", "estimate", "expect", "goals", "intend", "may", "milestones", 
"objectives", "outlook", "plan", "probably", "project", "risks", "schedule", 
"seek", "should", "target", "will" and similar terms and phrases. There are 
a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell and 
could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the 
forward-looking statements included in this Report, including (without 
limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes 
in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and 
production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and 
industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks 
associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition 
properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such 
transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and 
countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, judicial, fiscal 
and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing 
climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various 
countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation 
and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, 
delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the 
reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of 
pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) 
changes in trading conditions. Also see "Risk factors" on pages 15-26 for 
additional risks and further discussion. No assurance is provided that 
future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend 
payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this Report are 
expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements 
contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue 
About this Report
iv Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
 
Strategic 
Report
2 Chair's message
4 Chief Executive Officer's review
6 Powering Progress strategy
15 Risk factors
27 Progress on strategy – year in review
27 Performance indicators
29 Generating shareholder value
29 Group results
31 Financial framework
35 Market overview
38 Integrated Gas
44 Upstream
52 Oil and gas information
60 Marketing
65 Chemicals and Products
73 Renewables and Energy Solutions
77 Corporate
78 Our journey to net zero
106 Respecting nature
112 Powering lives
121 Safety
125 Principal decisions & stakeholders (Section 172(1) 
statement)
Strategic Report
1 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
1
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Chair’s
message
“A large, multinational 
organisation, like Shell,
can combine the pursuit
of value with contributing
to a better world.”
Sir Andrew Mackenzie 
Chair
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began more than a year ago. In the face 
of the humanitarian disaster this war created, Shell acted swiftly and 
decisively to support our own people in both countries, as well as 
Ukrainians who fled the conflict.
We also played a vital role in helping to safeguard energy supplies as 
many countries sought alternative sources to Russian oil and gas. Shell 
moved quickly, redirecting supplies, particularly liquefied natural gas 
(LNG), to where they were needed. 
I am immensely proud of how our people responded to this challenge, 
especially given the continuing pandemic in some parts of the world, 
which added to the uncertainties. The tragic earthquakes in Turkey and 
Syria last month also showed how Shell people step up, this time when 
faced with a natural disaster. Thankfully none of our staff were hurt, 
although many of their families were affected. Shell provided fuel to 
support emergency workers and chemicals to make foam mattresses, 
and hand sanitiser in the absence of water for washing.
The impact of war in particular has shown how vital it is for Shell to 
continue to supply secure and affordable energy, while producing what 
our customers need to make the transition to cleaner energy. Whatever 
challenges dominate the immediate view, we must stay focused on our 
role in the energy transition and the need to tackle climate change.
Shareholder value
A large, multinational organisation, like Shell, can combine the pursuit 
of value with contributing to a better world. Our Powering Progress 
strategy sets out how we plan to generate value for shareholders 
while reducing our carbon emissions. 
Rewarding shareholders must be a priority for a company wanting 
to deliver on its long-term strategy. They have put their faith in us and 
entrusted their money to us. Without their support we lack the remit 
to do what we must to become a net-zero emissions energy business. 
In 2022, we used some of our profits to buy back shares and 
distribute dividends. Importantly, we did this while keeping a 
strong balance sheet. 
We also continued to make the kind of disciplined investments in the 
energy transition we need to help our customers achieve net zero by 
providing low- and zero-carbon energy. We completed our acquisition 
of Denmark’s Nature Energy, Europe’s largest producer of renewable 
natural gas made from biomass, in February 2023. This will enable 
us to provide enough renewable natural gas to heat thousands more 
homes and power thousands more buses. We are also investing in 
growing our renewable power business. In 2022, we acquired the 
solar and wind group Sprng Energy, in India.
As one of the world's largest producers of biofuels, we can help 
customers reduce their emissions by providing energy that can be 
used in existing aircraft, cars, trucks, or ships. We are also expanding 
our electric vehicle charging network around the world to help 
decarbonise road transport.
CEO succession
Wael Sawan became CEO on January 1, 2023, succeeding Ben van 
Beurden. In his years at the head of Shell, Ben achieved many great 
things. In 2016, he made Shell’s largest ever acquisition in buying BG, 
he led us through the pandemic and the global financial turmoil that 
followed, and he led the historic move of our headquarters to London. 
He took the swift decision to start the process of pulling Shell out 
of Russia. We are grateful to Ben for his leadership through some 
of the most difficult challenges any CEO could face.
With Wael, Shell is in excellent hands. He has the capability and 
experience to focus on our strengths, such as the production of oil and 
gas, and oil products, and do this in ways that are profitable while 
Strategic Report
2
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Shell: aiming for 
efficiency in the 
energy transition
(Top): The Shell Chemicals 
Park Moerdijk the Netherlands. 
In 2022, we announced plans 
to build a new pyrolysis oil 
upgrader. The plant will have 
capacity to produce up to 
50,000 tonnes of pyrolysis oil 
per year. (Bottom left): In 2022, 
Shell opened its first electric 
vehicle charging hub in the 
UK in Fulham, London. (Bottom 
right): The Goldeneye pipeline 
at the St Fergus Gas Terminal. 
Sir Andrew Mackenzie, third 
from right.
lowering our emissions. But I believe that he will also drive the 
transformation of Shell into a business for the future, offering our 
customers a range of affordable energy, including from low- and
zero-carbon sources, from renewables to biofuels and charging 
for electric vehicles.
When asked to describe Wael, I tell people that he is a man who 
pursues excellence with relentless efficiency. He has clarity of vision 
and the conviction that performance rightly comes first. Wael has 
already acted to simplify the business structure, and allow for faster 
and better decision-making by combining Integrated Gas with 
Upstream and placing Renewables and Energy Solutions into our 
Downstream business. This will create a simpler senior leadership 
structure, with greater clarity of purpose and accountability.
Contributing to the energy transition
My visit in September to St Fergus near Aberdeen, on the east coast of 
Scotland, gave me a glimpse of what Shell is doing to provide energy 
and take carbon out of the energy system. We pipe gas from the North 
Sea to St Fergus and process it to help meet the UK’s energy needs. 
But St Fergus is also going to be important in helping the UK achieve 
its net-zero targets. We are part of the Acorn carbon capture and 
storage (CCS) and hydrogen project, which is using existing oil 
and gas infrastructure for decarbonisation. We are repurposing 
our Goldeneye pipeline to carry carbon dioxide (CO
2) from our 
St Fergus gas plant and store it safely beneath the seabed. 
Projects like these allow the skills and capability of our people to 
transfer from fossil fuels exploration and development to activities 
that help progress the energy transition. 
As we develop low- and zero-carbon products, we must also find 
ways to provide oil products that have a lower net carbon impact. 
This includes continuing to produce oil-based products that do not 
require burning in their use, such as lubricants and essential plastics. 
At all times, we must do this efficiently and sustainably. We are 
focusing on chemical recycling where we break down hard-to-recycle 
plastics into raw materials through a technique called pyrolysis. The 
pyrolysis oil can then be used as feedstock in our chemical plants, 
replacing traditional hydrocarbon feedstock. 
Aiming for highest return, lowest emissions
We apply firm capital discipline at Shell. We are equally disciplined 
when it comes to budgeting for carbon. Our carbon management 
framework (CMF) allocates a carbon budget to the operating plans 
of our businesses. We began applying this in 2022 and in 2023 
we will challenge our businesses even further: return the highest 
value within a given carbon and capital budget.
This approach is working. We reduced carbon emissions from our 
operations by 30% by the end of 2022, compared with 2016, our 
reference year. This is well over halfway towards our target of a 
50% reduction by 2030.
Faced with the challenge of providing secure supplies of energy while 
transforming for a net-zero future, it is more important than ever that 
Shell act decisively. As Chair, I want the Board to ensure that our 
governance is always firmly in place and highly effective in guiding 
the Executive Committee and management to move quickly when 
opportunity comes. 
Society has long enjoyed the benefits of oil and gas. But now the world 
must find ways to benefit from energy while urgently cutting emissions. 
This is going to be tough, but it is possible if everyone collaborates to 
develop and use low- and zero-carbon energy solutions and deploy 
technologies that capture CO
2 and store it underground or remove 
it directly from the air.
These are exciting times to work in the industry as we explore cleaner 
ways to keep the world moving. Opportunity surrounds us and I feel 
the same sense of adventure that I felt as a young geologist when 
my career began in the North Sea in the 1980s. 
The story of Shell is the story of pioneers. We have always been at the 
forefront of developments, from our first oil discoveries to deep-water 
exploration, and now to the energy transition. It is this spirit of 
adventure that will carry us forward.
Sir Andrew Mackenzie
Chair
Strategic Report
Chair’s message continued
3
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Chief
Executive
Officer’s
review
“The stark realities we are 
seeing globally reinforce
the need for a balanced
energy transition.”
Wael Sawan 
Chief Executive Officer
It was more than a year ago that Russia invaded Ukraine, triggering a 
war that has killed thousands and continues to wreck the lives of many 
more. I hope and pray for an end to this devastating conflict that is 
threatening the security of Europe.
We continue to provide support to our staff in both countries and
we are working with aid organisations in Ukraine and in bordering 
countries, where millions of refugees are now trying to rebuild their 
lives. In the days following the invasion, we announced our intention 
to withdraw from our Russian oil and gas activities in a phased manner, 
aligned with government guidance.
In 2022, the invasion and reduction of gas supply from Russia that 
followed accelerated a surge in global energy prices. This pushed up 
the cost of almost everything for households, industry, and businesses. 
Europe took positive actions to secure energy supply with Germany, 
for example, getting two floating regasification facilities up and running 
by the end of the year.
Shell also did its part, responding with agility as an energy provider. 
For example, we used our strength as a global energy producer and 
supplier to deliver 194 cargoes of liquefied natural gas to Europe and 
the UK – almost five times the usual average – and helped countries 
like Germany and Austria ensure they had enough energy storage 
ahead of their winter. I am proud of how our people stepped up 
when called upon.
As we publish our Annual Report, the tragic aftermath of devastating 
earthquakes in Turkey and Syria is still unfolding. We are supporting 
our staff in the region, and they are working hard to keep fuel supplies 
flowing to help relief efforts and keep hospitals operating.
The stark realities we are seeing globally reinforce the need for a 
balanced energy transition. They also show that our Powering Progress 
strategy is the right one: delivering secure and affordable energy with 
increasingly lower emissions. We must do this profitably as we help 
build the net-zero energy system of the future.
Generating shareholder value
In becoming Chief Executive Officer in January 2023, I succeeded
Ben van Beurden, who was CEO for nine years. In that time Ben 
transformed Shell into a much stronger company and set us on the path 
to net-zero emissions. I am grateful to Ben for his work and for what he 
has handed over to me. In my first Annual Report as CEO, I want to be 
clear: Shell is a great company, and we are changing to ensure we 
become a great investment too.
In 2022, we made income of around $43 billion and our highest ever 
Adjusted Earnings of around $40 billion. While the global business 
environment for energy producers helped make this possible, our 
Adjusted Earnings were still around $17 billion higher than in 2014, 
when Brent prices were at similar levels. Thanks to improvements made 
over the past few years, the quality of our portfolio also makes us 
resilient to market volatility, and the streamlining of our organisation 
has made us more efficient.
We delivered a cash flow from operations of more than
$68 billion and our organic free cash flow was around $48 billion.
This strong performance allowed us to increase our distributions to 
shareholders and we returned around $26 billion to them through 
share buybacks and dividends, which is more than 35% of our cash 
flow from operations. We will continue to target shareholder 
distributions with a hard floor of 20%, and the option of more than 
30%, of our cash flow from operations, subject to Board approval.
Profit without sustainability erodes our licence to operate. Sustainability 
without profit erodes our shareholder support and financial capacity to 
play a meaningful part in the energy transition.
Strategic Report
4
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Investing to meet demand today 
and in the future
(Top): Energy users in South Africa. A mother and daughter cooking together. 
Shell is working to provide secure and affordable energy. (Bottom left): 
Holland Hydrogen 1 imagery, credit: Plotvis. Shell took the final investment 
decision to build Holland Hydrogen 1 in July 2022. (Bottom right): Denmark-
based Nature Energy. Shell completed the acquisition of the renewable 
natural gas producer in February 2023.
We must continue to provide energy and do it with fewer emissions. 
We can only do this with the backing of our shareholders because 
it is their capital that enables us to invest in the energy transition. 
Performance and discipline
In 2022, there were significant improvements in both personal 
and process safety. The safety of our employees and contractors 
is paramount. Despite our best efforts, I am saddened to say that in 
2022 two of our contractor colleagues died tragically, one in Nigeria 
and one in Pakistan. We will, as always, learn from these accidents 
and do our utmost to keep our people safe and unharmed.
While our 2022 financial performance was strong, we can do even 
better. We aim to be disciplined in allocating our capital by investing 
in the best oil and gas projects and making investments in the energy 
transition with a relentless focus on shareholder value and returns.
Our acquisition of Nature Energy, the largest producer of renewable 
natural gas in Europe, is a case in point. This is a transformative 
investment because Nature Energy will supply customers we already 
have, while giving us access to new customers who want low-carbon 
products. Another investment that promises value is our acquisition 
of Sprng Energy group, a solar and wind platform in India, which has 
added significant capacity to our renewable generation portfolio. 
We also took the final investment decision to build Holland Hydrogen 
1 in the Netherlands, which will be Europe’s largest renewable 
hydrogen plant once operational from 2025.
In addition to this, our oil and gas activities are showing they can 
operate according to our belief that value is more important than 
volume. For example, our Vito deep-water oil platform, which produced 
first oil in February 2023 in the Gulf of Mexico, was redesigned to 
make the combined topsides and hull a third of the originally planned 
size and reduce costs by more than 70%. 
As part of our efforts to improve our operating performance, all our 
businesses work within a rigorous capital and carbon budget. Shell 
will continue to apply capital discipline as we require directorates to 
adhere to our new carbon management framework, which sets limits 
for the emissions in each business. 
In early 2023, I moved to simplify our business and leadership 
structure. By combining Integrated Gas with Upstream, and 
Renewables and Energy Solutions with the Downstream business, 
I believe we will be able to make faster, more focused decisions.
Balance and ingenuity
The energy transition must succeed, but balance is needed if society is 
to leave nobody behind. Trying to dismantle the current energy system 
before the new energy system is ready will lead to supply shortages 
and higher prices. The transition must seek to ensure energy security, 
affordability and sustainability.
Shell is ready to play a role in a balanced transition, profitably and 
purposefully. As we delivered record profits for 2022, we also reduced 
carbon emissions from our operations by over 30%, compared with 
2016, our reference year. This is more than halfway towards our target 
of a 50% reduction by 2030. We are also making progress in reducing 
our fresh-water consumption in water-stressed areas and focusing on 
chemical recycling.
As I take on the role of CEO, I am reminded of when I joined Shell 
some 25 years ago. I was attracted to its core values of honesty, 
integrity and respect for people. I believe those same values, along 
with Shell’s diverse and exceptional talent, our assets and capabilities, 
our brand and relationships, equip us well for the next phase of our 
journey. We can make a real difference in the world and create value 
for our shareholders by doing so. 
Since my appointment was announced in September 2022, I have 
spent time with our teams in a number of countries, including Brazil, the 
Netherlands, Qatar, the UAE and the USA. I have drawn tremendous 
energy and pride from seeing the outstanding work that our people are 
engaged in every day. My single biggest contribution, along with my 
Executive Committee, will be to find ways to harness the collective 
energy and commitment that our 93,000 people possess.
Together, we have the ingenuity, talent and resilience to continue to 
transform our business into one that performs with increasing discipline, 
efficiency and excellence. We will unlock our potential, power 
progress, and help make this balanced energy transition happen.
Wael Sawan
Chief Executive Officer
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
5
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Powering
Progress strategy
Who we are Our stakeholders
Shell is a global group of energy and petrochemical 
companies, employing 93,000 [A] people and 
with
 operations in more than 70 countries.
We use advanced technologies and take an innovative 
approach as we seek to help the world build a sustainable 
energy future. Shell is a customer-focused organisation, 
serving more than 1 million commercial and industrial 
customers, and around 32 million customers daily at 
more than 46,000 Shell-branded retail service stations. 
[A] At December 31, 2022. 
▪ Our investors
▪ Our customers
▪ Our employees/workforce/pensioners
▪ Our strategic partners/suppliers
▪ Communities
▪ NGOs/civil society stakeholders/academia/think-tanks
▪ Governments/regulators
See "Respecting nature", "Powering lives" and "Governance".
Our purpose
To power progress 
together by providing 
more and cleaner 
energy solutions.
See "Powering lives - Our people".
Strategic Report
POWERING 
PROGRESS
GENERATING 
SHAREHOLDER 
VALUE
POWERING 
LIVES
ACHIEVING 
NET-ZERO 
EMISSIONS
RESPECTING 
NATURE
Underpinned by our core values and our focus on safety 
Our core values
Honesty  |  Integrity  |  Respect for people
6
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Our strategy We work with sectors that would benefit from the expertise 
and experience that energy companies can provide to help them 
find a path to net-zero emissions. Aviation is one of these sectors. 
Together with our customers, we are working on changing energy 
demand and developing ways to help increase the use of low-
carbon fuels and decrease carbon emissions from this sector. 
Meanwhile, on the supply side, in Rotterdam in the Netherlands, 
Shell is building an 820,000-tonnes-a-year biofuels facility. This is 
expected to be among the largest in Europe, producing sustainable 
aviation fuel and renewable diesel made from waste and certified 
sustainable vegetable oils.
Powering Progress
Our Powering Progress strategy comprises: generating shareholder 
value, achieving net-zero emissions, powering lives and respecting 
nature. It is a strategy that integrates sustainability with our pursuit 
of value through high performance. Our purpose is to power 
progress together by providing more and cleaner energy solutions. 
We also expect our employees and contractors to maintain Shell's 
focus on safety and abide by our core values of honesty, integrity 
and respect for people. 
Powering Progress is a strategy that combines our financial 
strength and discipline with a dynamic approach to our portfolio 
of assets and products, so we can seize the opportunities of the 
energy transition. Shell transforms its portfolio continuously to 
better meet the clean energy needs of its customers today and 
in the future.
Achieving our strategy depends on how we respond to competitive 
forces. We assess the external environment – the markets and 
margins, and the underlying economic, political, social and 
environmental drivers that shape them – to evaluate commercial 
opportunities and potential new business models. We regularly 
review the markets where we operate, and assess our competitive 
position by analysing trends, uncertainties, and the strengths and 
weaknesses of our traditional and non-traditional competitors.
We maintain business plans that focus on actions and capabilities 
to create and sustain competitive advantage. We maintain a risk 
management framework that regularly assesses our response to, 
and appetite for, identified risks. 
Our Executive Directors’ remuneration is linked to the successful 
delivery of our strategy, based on performance indicators that 
we consider to be aligned with shareholder interests. Long-term 
incentives form the majority of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration for above-target performance. In 2022, the Long-
term Incentive Plan (LTIP) included conditions relating to cash 
generation, capital discipline, value created for shareholders, 
and energy transition. 
Powering Progress is our strategy to generate value 
for shareholders and become a net-zero emissions 
business by 2050. It is designed to help customers 
decarbonise and bring benefits for wider society, 
while respecting nature. Our strategy is underpinned 
by our focus on safety, and our core values of 
honesty, integrity and respect for people. 
Context 
Climate change is one of the biggest challenges the world faces 
today. In 2022, geopolitical events showed that a secure supply 
of energy is crucial, and a growing global population is likely 
to continue to drive demand for energy, including oil and gas, 
for years to come. This necessitates society's rapid transition 
to a low-carbon, multi-source energy system. 
Shell supports the most ambitious goal of the Paris Agreement, 
which is to limit the rise in global average temperature this century 
to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. To achieve 
this, urgent action is needed to reduce emissions across power, 
transport, buildings, and hard-to-abate industries, such as steel 
and concrete. Around 140 countries and more than 2,000 
companies and organisations have made commitments to 
get to net-zero emissions by 2050.
Shell seeks to play its part, purposefully and profitably, in the 
energy transition, while helping to maintain energy security. We are 
building a resilient business by putting customers at the centre of 
our strategy, and innovating the products and solutions they need. 
Our integrated assets and supply chains are designed to deliver 
value for our shareholders and customers. We aim to manage risk 
for Shell and our customers as we produce, buy, trade, transport 
and sell energy products and solutions worldwide. 
The energy transition brings risks, involves confronting complex 
obstacles, and poses great challenges. The energy transition 
also offers significant opportunities. 
We seek to work with our customers to identify available, 
affordable and low- and zero-carbon energy solutions that meet 
their changing needs and to help decarbonise the energy system.
There will be no single solution that fits all customers. Instead, there 
will be variations with differing approaches and rates of progress 
across countries, sectors and markets. 
Customers’ use of the energy we sell generates most emissions. 
Helping our customers get to net zero will also reduce our net 
carbon intensity, and the average amount of greenhouse gas 
emissions we produce for every unit of energy that we sell and 
that is used by our customers.
Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy
Our strategy
7
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Generating shareholder value
Powering Progress is designed to pursue shareholder value, 
make disciplined and focused investments to grow our 
businesses, and help Shell become even more competitive 
and resilient.
We aim to create the conditions for share price appreciation 
by optimising the performance of our businesses. We are also 
preparing for the future by seizing the opportunities presented 
by the energy transition. Shell takes a dynamic approach to its 
portfolio by continuing to provide the energy the world needs 
and increasing our investments in low- and zero-carbon energy 
products and services. 
We aim to generate value for shareholders by providing 
sustainable distributions through our progressive dividend 
policy and share buyback programmes. In 2022, we generated 
$68.4 billion cash flow from operating activities. Our cash 
capital expenditure was $24.8 billion and total shareholder 
distributions amounted to $25.8 billion, whilst we reduced 
our net debt to $44.8 billion as at December 31, 2022. 
We completed our share buyback programmes in 2022 
with a combined value of $18.4 billion. We increased our 
dividend to $0.25 per share in the first quarter of 2022 and 
announced a 15% increase for the fourth quarter of 2022. 
Total shareholder distributions were in excess of 35% of 
cash flow from operating activities.
We seek to maintain a strong balance sheet and apply 
a disciplined approach to capital investment. In this way, 
we believe we will achieve our aim of building a compelling 
investment case for our shareholders.
Achieving net-zero emissions
We have a long-term target to become a net-zero emissions 
energy business by 2050. The target covers emissions from our 
operations (Scope 1), emissions from the energy we buy to run 
our operations (Scope 2), and emissions from our customers’ 
use of the energy products we sell (Scope 3). 
We also have targets to reduce the net carbon intensity of 
the energy products we sell, with 2016 as our baseline year. 
These include targets of a 6-8% reduction by the end of 2023, 
a 9-12% reduction by the end of 2024, and a 9-13% reduction 
by the end of 2025. Our medium- and longer-term targets are 
to reduce by 20% by 2030, by 45% by 2035 and 100% by 
2050. We achieved our target of a 3-4% reduction by the end 
of 2022. We also have an absolute emissions reduction target 
of 50% on all Scope 1 and 2 emissions under Shell’s operational 
control by 2030 on a net basis. By the end of 2022, Shell had 
reduced its absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30%. 
We place a high priority on combating methane emissions 
linked to oil and gas, and we have set a target to keep our 
methane emissions intensity for operated oil and gas assets 
(including liquefied natural gas) below 0.2% by 2025. In 2022, 
methane emissions intensity for operated facilities with marketing 
gas was 0.05%.
We are transforming our business and selling more low-carbon 
products and services, such as electricity generated by solar 
and wind power, hydrogen, biofuels, and charging for electric 
vehicles. We are helping sectors to decarbonise by working 
collaboratively with customers, businesses and governments. 
Shell engages with governments and other stakeholders, such as 
international organisations and industry associations, to support 
robust policies, legislation and regulations designed to 
accelerate the transition to net-zero emissions. 
Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy
Our strategy continued
8
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Powering lives
Shell is dedicated to making a positive impact on the lives of 
people around the world. We work to improve people’s lives 
through our products and activities, and by contributing to 
local communities and championing inclusion.
We help to power lives and livelihoods by providing vital 
energy for homes, businesses and transport. Millions of people 
live without access to affordable, reliable and sustainable 
energy, and this has been exacerbated by the geopolitical 
events of 2022. Energy supply is crucial for addressing global 
challenges, including those related to poverty and inequality. 
In line with our Powering Progress strategy, Shell has been 
striving to bring reliable electricity to those in emerging 
markets who do not yet have it.
We support livelihoods by providing employment and training 
in the communities where we operate. In addition, we buy and 
sell goods and services and generate revenues for governments 
through the taxes and royalties we pay and the sales taxes we 
collect on their behalf. This helps governments fund health care, 
education, transport and other essential services. 
Shell is working to become one of the most diverse and inclusive 
organisations in the world, a place where everyone feels valued 
and respected. We are focusing on four areas: gender; race 
and ethnicity; lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT+); 
and disability. 
We seek to respect human rights in all parts of our business. 
In 2021, Shell published a commitment to worker welfare as 
part of our approach to human rights and implemented the 
new Worker Welfare Control Framework requirements based 
on principles developed by the global, business-led coalition 
Building Responsibly. These requirements became mandatory 
in 2022 for Shell and our contractors.
Respecting nature
Our environmental ambitions include protecting and enhancing 
biodiversity. We are also focused on using water and other 
resources more efficiently and reusing as much of them as 
we can. We are reducing waste from our operations and 
increasing the recycling of plastics. 
We are committed to recycling plastic waste in our chemical 
facilities. Shell’s proprietary technology to improve the quality 
of pyrolysis oil is a key process in delivering on this ambition. 
Pyrolysis is a technique whereby hard-to-recycle plastics are 
broken down into raw materials. We have invested in our first 
pyrolysis oil upgrader unit at the Shell Energy and Chemicals 
Park Singapore. In Canada, Shell has been working with the 
people of Dawson Creek city to manage water use at our 
nearby natural gas operations at Groundbirch. We worked 
with the city council to open a plant that treats municipal 
waste water that would otherwise be discharged to a local 
river. Our Groundbirch site recycles around 98% of water 
used for its operations. 
Across Shell, we are helping to improve air quality by reducing 
emissions from our operations and providing clean ways to 
power transport and industry. 
Our purchasing policies include requirements that reflect our 
environmental framework and take the energy efficiency, 
material efficiency and sustainability of products into 
consideration in our purchases.
Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy
Our strategy continued
9
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Our inputs [A] Business activities
Financial capital
Equity attributable to Shell plc shareholders ($ billion) [B]:
190 2021: 172
Non-current debt ($ billion) [B]: 
75 2021: 81
Net debt ($ billion) [B][C]:
45 2021: 53 
Average capital employed ($ billion) [B]: 
270 2021: 265
Cash capital expenditure ($ billion) [C]: 
25 2021: 20
Operations
Refining and chemicals availability:
96% 2021: 96%
Oil & gas production available for sale (kboe/d):
2,864 2021: 3,237
LNG liquefaction volumes (million tonnes):
30 2021: 31
Human capital
Number of employees (thousands) [B][D]:
93 2021: 83
Number of training days (thousands):
266 2021: 271
Relationships
Customers, joint arrangements, government relations, suppliers.
Operating countries [B]:
>70 2021: >70
Intellectual capital
Research and development expenses ($ million):
1,075 2021: 815
Number of patents [B][E]:
10,788 2021: 8,532
Natural resources
Proved oil and gas reserves (million boe) [B]:
9,578 2021: 9,365
Energy consumed (million MWh):
199 2021: 223
[A] In 2022 unless stated otherwise.
[B] At December 31.
[C] See "Non-GAAP measures reconciliations" on pages 362-365.
[D] Employee numbers, including comparatives, have been updated from Full Time 
Equivalents (FTE) to Headcount.
[E] Includes patents granted and pending patent applications.
[F] Source: Brand Finance Global 500 (years 2023 and 2022).
Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy
How we create value
Brand value We aim to meet the world’s growing need for more and 
sustainable energy solutions in ways that are economically, 
environmentally and socially responsible. Our Powering 
Progress strategy is designed to create value for our 
shareholders, customers and wider society.
Value of Shell brand ($ billion) [F]:
48 2021: 50
Energy
use
Customer
sectors
Energy 
solutions
Assets and 
capabilities
SUPPORTING THE DELIVERY            OF INTEGRATED ENERGY SOLUTIONS
Commercial
Residential
 Marine
 Aviation
 Agriculture
and forestry
Commercial
road transport
Industrial
Mobility
Electricity Gas-to-liquidsLiqueﬁed natural gasFuels Chemicals Biofuels Hydrogen Natural gasLubricants
Technology and        operational excellence
Oil
LNG and GTL
Energy and chemicals parks
Renewables
 Gas
Transport
Biomass
Power
People
Carbon offsets
Value enhanced by            trading and optimisation
10 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Our outcomes and impacts [A]
Cash flow from operating activities
($ billion):
68 2021: 45
Adjusted earnings
($ billion) [C]:
40 2021: 19
Shareholder distributions
($ billion) [C]:
26 2021: 9
Absolute emissions (Scope 1 and 2 – 
million tonnes of CO₂ equivalent):
58 2021: 68 | 2016: 83
Net carbon intensity (Grams of CO₂ 
equivalent per megajoule):
76 2021: 77 | 2016: 79
Methane emissions intensity for 
operated facilities with marketing gas:
0.05% 2021: 0.06%
Women in senior leadership
positions [B]:
30% 2021: 30%
Taxes paid and collected
($ billion):
68 2021: 59
Total spend on goods and services
($ billion):
42 2021: 38
Fresh water consumed by four major 
facilities in high water-stressed areas 
(million m³):
18 2021: 22 | 2018: 25
Total waste disposed (million tonnes):
2 2021: 2
Operational spills of more than 100 
kilograms (thousand tonnes):
0.06 2021: 0.05
[A] In 2022 unless stated otherwise.
[B] At December 31.
[C] See "Non-GAAP measures reconciliations" on pages 362-365.
Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy
How we create value continued
Energy
use
Customer
sectors
Energy 
solutions
Assets and 
capabilities
SUPPORTING THE DELIVERY            OF INTEGRATED ENERGY SOLUTIONS
Commercial
Residential
 Marine
 Aviation
 Agriculture
and forestry
Commercial
road transport
Industrial
Mobility
Electricity Gas-to-liquidsLiqueﬁed natural gasFuels Chemicals Biofuels Hydrogen Natural gasLubricants
Technology and        operational excellence
Oil
LNG and GTL
Energy and chemicals parks
Renewables
 Gas
Transport
Biomass
Power
People
Carbon offsets
Value enhanced by            trading and optimisation
11 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Working with our customers and 
across sectors to accelerate the 
transition to net-zero emissions
January 2022 Shell started up a hydrogen electrolyser in China with 20 
MW production capacity which is critical to decarbonisation in China. 
January 2022 Shell completed sale of interest in Deer Park refinery. Shell 
plans to consolidate its refinery footprint to five or six core energy and 
chemicals parks. These locations will maximise the integration benefits 
of conventional fuels and chemicals production while also offering new 
low-carbon fuels and performance chemicals. 
January 2022 Shell and ScottishPower won bids to develop 5 GW 
of floating wind power to become the world’s first large-scale floating 
offshore wind farm in UK waters. Once built, it will power the equivalent 
of 6 million homes in Scotland.
February 2022 Shell's joint venture Atlantic Shores won acreage in 
New York Bight, which expands Shell’s offshore wind renewable power 
generation capacity in the USA. This area, subject to a future investment 
decision, could support around 1.5 GW of commercial wind generation, 
enough to power nearly 700,000 New York and New Jersey homes.
February 2022 Shell completed the acquisition of Powershop in 
Australia an online energy retailer serving more than 185,000 customers. 
This complements Shell’s existing Australian investments in low- and zero-
carbon assets and technologies. 
June 2022 Shell completed the acquisition of the Landmark fuel and 
convenience network which provides opportunities to offer customers 
expanded fuelling options (including electric vehicle charging, hydrogen, 
biofuels and lower-carbon premium fuels) and allows for the growth of 
non-fuel sales through an enhanced convenience offering.
July 2022 QatarEnergy selected Shell as a partner in the North Field 
East (NFE) expansion project in Qatar. In December 2022, QatarEnergy 
and Shell closed the transaction with Shell purchasing 25% of the joint 
venture (JV) which owns 25% of the overall project. Shell's ownership of 
NFE via its JV shareholding is 6.25%. The project will use CCS, helping 
to reduce emissions.
July 2022 Shell took the final investment decision to build Holland 
Hydrogen I, which will be Europe’s largest renewable hydrogen plant once 
operational from 2025. Holland Hydrogen I demonstrates how new 
energy solutions can help meet society’s need for cleaner energy. It is also 
an example of Shell’s own efforts and commitment to become a net-zero 
emissions business by 2050.
August 2022 Shell completed the acquisition of Solenergi Power Private 
Limited and with it the Sprng Energy group, one of India’s leading 
renewable power platforms that develops and manages renewable 
energy facilities and infrastructure assets.
October 2022 QatarEnergy selected Shell to participate in the North 
Field South project in Qatar. Shell will obtain a 9.375% participating 
interest in the 16 mtpa project out of a total 25% interest available for 
international partners. QatarEnergy will hold the remaining 75%.
February 2023 Shell completed the acquisition of Nature Energy which 
is a producer of renewable natural gas (RNG) from agricultural, industrial, 
and household waste. This acquisition, announced in November 2022, 
will increase Shell's ability to help customers decarbonise and accelerate 
its transition to net-zero emissions. 
 
Protecting the environment, reducing 
waste and making a positive 
contribution to biodiversity
Shell’s Upstream business has a project under way to restore two hectares 
of coral reef in Mexico. The project aims to replant damaged coral reefs 
that support the marine ecosystem.
Shell Moerdijk’s 39-hectare solar park, in the Netherlands, is designed with 
optimal habitats for pollinators that resulted in more species of bees than 
on neighbouring agricultural land, research showed. Future solar parks in 
the Netherlands, such as Heerenveen, will follow the same design.
Shell and Space Intelligence are maturing an artificial intelligence (AI) 
techniques to monitor the health of natural ecosystems. At scale, this use 
of AI can improve how Shell’s nature-based solutions (NBS) business 
evaluates, tracks and assesses the performance of ecosystems and 
may augment the value of NBS projects worldwide.
Improving people’s lives through 
our products and activities, 
contributing to local communities 
and championing inclusion
Access to Energy In September 2022, Shell acquired Daystar Power, a 
provider of integrated solar power solutions to businesses in West Africa, 
helping customers reduce power costs and pollution. This deal marks our 
first power acquisition in Africa and is a fundamental step for Shell in 
growing our presence in emerging power markets.
Diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) In 2022, as part of Shell’s 
ambition to become one of the most diverse and inclusive organisations in 
the world, we published data to demonstrate the progress we have made 
against all our individual commitments for gender, race and ethnicity, 
LGBT+ and disability inclusion. We published our DE&I roadmap and 
guiding principles to increase transparency around our approach and 
to drive leadership accountability and the behaviours we expect.
Communities In 2022, Shell's social investment amounted to almost 
$260 million. This included programmes supporting education, community 
development, disaster relief, energy access, community skills and enterprise 
development, health, biodiversity and road safety.
Human Rights Human rights are fundamental to Shell’s core values of 
honesty, integrity and respect for people. In 2022, we completed a review 
of our salient human rights with an external advisor, Business for Social 
Responsibility (BSR). We published a list grouping these rights according 
to four focus areas: workplace, supply chains, community and security. 
Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy
Powering Progress
in action
12
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Our integrated business model is key to driving our strategy. Shell has 
a competitive portfolio and we intend to maintain that position as we 
develop our assets and the mix of energy that we sell to meet the needs 
of our customers for more affordable, reliable and cleaner energy. By 
doing so, we aim to generate additional value for our shareholders. 
Delivering our strategy will require clear and deliberate capital 
allocation choices. We approach capital allocation at three levels: 
enterprise, portfolio and project. The enterprise level is about how
we make choices between increasing distributions to our shareholders, 
investing in our business and strengthening our balance sheet. The 
portfolio level is about how we allocate capital between our business 
segments. The project level is about how we evaluate and prioritise 
investment opportunities. 
For cash capital expenditure (capex), the 2023 outlook is in the 
$23-27 billion range.
Our capital framework target is a distribution of at least 20-30%
of cash flow from operations to shareholders and we may choose 
to return cash to shareholders through a combination of dividends 
and share buybacks. Subject to Board approval, we aim to grow the 
dividend per share by around 4% every year. When setting the level
of shareholder distributions, the Board looks at a range of factors, 
including the macro-environment, the underlying business earnings
and cash flow of the Shell Group, the current balance sheet, future 
investment, acquisition and divestment plans and existing commitments. 
We have announced an increase of our dividend per share of 15% for 
the fourth quarter of 2022 as part of our progressive dividend policy. 
Portfolio allocation affects our ability to deliver on targets we have 
made, and socio-economic, political and market factors sometimes 
change our outlooks. Existing global targets are currently under review. 
While no decisions have been made, to ensure our transition to a net-
zero energy business is profitable, it is likely that some business targets 
may be retired, as part of normal strategy evolution and mindful of 
existing capital allocation in the latest operating plan. We expect to 
provide further insights during our Capital Markets Day in June 2023. 
All targets presented at Capital Markets Day in June will be filed with 
the SEC.
The statements in this section, including those related to our growth 
strategies and our expected or potential future cash flow from 
operations, organic free cash flow, share buybacks, capital investment, 
divestments, production, absolute emissions and net carbon intensity, 
are based on management’s current expectations and certain 
material assumptions. Accordingly, these statements involve risks 
and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or 
events to differ materially from those expressed or implied herein. 
Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy
Outlook
Outlook for 2023
and beyond
Financial framework
Sustainable progressive dividend
Total shareholder distributions ≥ 20-30% [A]
of cash ﬂow from operating activities
Total shareholder distributions (dividends + share buybacks) based on cash generation, macro-outlook and balance sheet trajectory
[A] Potentially more than 30% (subject to Board approval and prevailing market conditions).
Capital
discipline
2023 cash capex within $23-27 billion
 Includes inorganic capex
Capital discipline
Signiﬁcant
shareholder
distributions
Resilient
balance
sheet
Resilient balance sheet
Targeting AA credit metrics through
the cycle
 Continued focus on Net debt reduction
 in upcycle
 Divest for value
 Invest for value
Around 4% annual growth
in dividend per share, subject
to Board approval
Signiﬁcant shareholder distributions
13
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Integrated Gas, Renewables
and Energy Solutions
Integrated Gas manages liquefied natural gas (LNG) activities 
and the conversion of natural gas into gas-to-liquids (GTL)
fuels and other products. It includes natural gas and liquids 
exploration and extraction, as well as the operation of the 
upstream and midstream infrastructure necessary to deliver gas 
and liquids to market. The marketing, trading and optimisation
of LNG are included within Integrated Gas. 
Renewables and Energy Solutions (R&ES) manages Shell's 
integrated power activities. These comprise electricity 
generation, marketing and trading of power and pipeline gas,
as well as digitally enabled customer solutions. The R&ES 
business also includes the production and marketing of 
hydrogen, development of commercial carbon capture and 
storage hubs, trading of carbon credits, and investment in 
nature-based projects that avoid or reduce carbon.
Upstream
Upstream explores for and extracts crude oil, natural gas and 
natural gas liquids. It also markets and transports oil and gas, 
and operates the infrastructure necessary to deliver them to
the market. Upstream business delivers reliable energy from 
conventional oil and gas operations, as well as deep-water 
exploration and production activities. 
We are focusing our Upstream portfolio to become more 
resilient, prioritising value over volume to provide the energy
the world needs today whilst funding the energy system of 
tomorrow. Upstream will play a fundamental role in supporting 
Shell’s transformation to a net-zero business by 2050. 
Upstream's oil and gas supplies help maintain the world's
energy security. The business is working to provide these
supplies with lower emissions.
Downstream
Marketing manages the Mobility, Lubricants, and Sectors & 
Decarbonisation activities. Mobility operates Shell's retail 
network, including electric vehicle charging services. Lubricants 
produces, markets and sells lubricants for road transport and 
machinery. Sectors & Decarbonisation sells fuels, speciality 
products and services including low-carbon energy solutions
to a broad range of commercial customers. 
Chemicals and Products manages chemical manufacturing 
plants with their own marketing network and refineries, which 
turn crude oil and other feedstocks into a range of oil products. 
These products are moved and marketed around the world for 
domestic, industrial and transport use. Downstream also includes 
the pipeline activities, and trading of crude oil, oil products
and petrochemicals.
Projects & Technology 
Projects & Technology manages the delivery of our major 
projects and drives research and innovation. It provides technical 
services for our businesses. It is also responsible for providing 
functional leadership across Shell in safety and environment, 
contracting and procurement, wells activities and greenhouse 
gas management.
Technology and innovation are essential to our efforts to meet 
the world’s energy needs in a competitive way. Our main 
technology centres are in India, the Netherlands and the USA, 
with other centres in Brazil, China, Germany, Oman and Qatar. 
On January 30, 2023, Shell announced that the Integrated Gas and Upstream businesses will be combined 
into a single Integrated Gas and Upstream Directorate. The Downstream business will be combined with 
Renewables and Energy Solutions to form a new Downstream and Renewables Directorate. The changes 
are expected to take effect on July 1, 2023. The intention of this change is to simplify the organisation 
further and improve performance as we deliver our Powering Progress strategy.
Strategic Report | Powering Progress strategy
Our organisation
Our Powering Progress
businesses in 2022
14
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
The risks discussed below could have a 
material adverse effect separately, or in 
combination, on our earnings, cash flows 
and financial condition. Accordingly, 
investors should carefully consider 
these risks.
Further background on each risk is set out in the relevant sections of this 
Report, indicated by way of cross references under each risk factor.
The Board’s responsibility for identifying, evaluating and managing our 
significant and emerging risks is discussed in "Other regulatory and 
statutory information" on pages 211-219.
 
Strategic risks
We are exposed to macroeconomic risks including fluctuating prices of 
crude oil, natural gas, oil products and chemicals.
Further information: See "Market overview" 
on page 35.
Risk description
The prices of crude oil, natural gas, oil products and chemicals can be volatile and are affected by supply 
and demand, both globally and regionally. Macroeconomic, geopolitical and technological uncertainties 
can also affect production costs and demand for our products. Government actions may also affect the 
prices of crude oil, natural gas, oil products and chemicals. These include price caps on gas, the 
promotion of electric vehicle sales or the phasing-out of future sales of new diesel or gasoline vehicles 
(as announced in the UK and due to come into force in 2030). Oil and gas prices can also move 
independently of each other (as seen with European gas prices in 2022). Factors that influence supply 
and demand include operational issues, natural disasters, weather, pandemics such as COVID-19, 
political instability, conflicts, such as the Russian invasion of Ukraine, economic conditions, including 
inflation, and actions by major oil- and gas-producing countries. In a low oil and gas price environment, 
we would generate less revenue from our Upstream and Integrated Gas businesses, and parts of those 
businesses could become less profitable or incur losses. Low oil and gas prices have also resulted and 
could continue to result in the debooking of proved oil or gas reserves, if they become uneconomic in this 
type of price environment. Prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices, or rising costs, have resulted and 
could continue to result in projects being delayed or cancelled. Assets have been impaired in the past, 
and there could be impairments in the future. Low oil and gas prices have affected and could continue to 
affect our ability to maintain our long-term capital investment and shareholder distribution programmes. 
Prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices could adversely affect the financial, fiscal, legal, political and 
social stability of countries that rely significantly on oil and gas revenue. In the past, a high oil and gas 
price environment has generally led to sharp increases in costs and this could continue. Under high oil 
and gas prices, our entitlement to proved reserves under some production-sharing contracts could also 
be reduced. Higher prices could also reduce demand for our products, which could result in lower 
profitability, particularly in our Chemicals and Products and Marketing businesses. Some of the reduction 
in demand could be permanent. Higher prices can also lead to more capacity being built, potentially 
resulting in an oversupplied market which would negatively affect our Upstream, Integrated Gas, 
Renewables and Energy Solutions, Chemicals and Products and Marketing businesses. 
Accordingly, price fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition. 
How this risk is managed
We maintain a diversified portfolio to manage the 
impact of price volatility. We test the resilience of 
our projects and other opportunities against a range 
of prices and costs for crude oil, natural gas, oil 
products and chemicals. We prepare annual 
strategic and financial plans that test different 
scenarios and their impact on prices on our 
businesses and company as a whole. We also aim 
to maintain a strong balance sheet to provide 
resilience against weak market prices.
Our ability to deliver competitive returns and pursue commercial 
opportunities depends in part on the accuracy of our price assumptions.
Further information: See "Market overview" 
on page 37.
Risk description
We use a range of commodity price and margin assumptions, which we review on a periodic basis. These 
ranges help us to evaluate the robustness of our capital allocation for our evaluation of projects and 
commercial opportunities. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, this could have a material adverse 
effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
How this risk is managed
The range of commodity prices and margins used in 
our project and portfolio evaluations is subject to a 
rigorous assessment of short-, medium- and long-term 
market drivers. These drivers include the extent and 
pace of the energy transition.
Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives depends on how we react 
to competitive forces. 
Further information: See "Our strategy" on page 7 
and "Outlook" on page 13. 
Risk description
We face competition in all our businesses. We seek to differentiate our services and products, though 
many of our products are competing in commodity-type markets. Accordingly, failure to manage our costs 
and our operational performance could result in a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition. We also compete with state-owned hydrocarbon entities and state-backed utility 
entities with access to financial resources and local markets. Such entities could be motivated by political 
or other factors in making their business decisions. Accordingly, when bidding on new leases or projects, 
we could find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage because these state-owned entities may not 
require a competitive return. If we are unable to obtain competitive returns when bidding on new leases 
or projects, this could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
How this risk is managed
We continually assess the external environment - 
the markets and the underlying economic, political, 
social and environmental drivers that shape them - 
to evaluate changes in competitive forces. We 
define multiple future potential scenarios and 
business environments by identifying drivers, 
uncertainties, enablers and constraints to our 
competitiveness. These scenarios help us to find 
issues which affect our operating environment and 
have implications for our strategy.
Strategic Report
Risk factors
15 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
15
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Strategic risks continued
Rising concerns about climate change and effects of the energy transition 
could continue to lead to a fall in demand and potentially lower prices for 
fossil fuels. Climate change could also have a physical impact on our 
assets and supply chains. This risk may also lead to additional legal and/
or regulatory measures, resulting in project delays or cancellations, 
potential additional litigation, operational restrictions and additional 
compliance obligations. 
For further explanations of our climate change 
governance, risk management approach, climate 
ambition and strategy, and our portfolio and 
performance, please refer to the section "Our 
journey to net zero" on pages 78-105.
Risk description
Societal demand for urgent action on climate change has increased, especially since the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Special Report of 2018 on 1.5°C effectively made 
the more ambitious goal of the Paris Agreement to limit the rise in global average temperature this century 
to 1.5 degrees Celsius the default target. This increasing focus on climate change and drive for an energy 
transition have created a risk environment that is changing rapidly, resulting in a wide range of 
stakeholder actions at global, local and company levels. The potential impact and likelihood of the 
associated exposure for Shell could vary across different time horizons, depending on the specific 
components of the risk.
We expect that a growing share of our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions will be subject to regulation, 
resulting in increased compliance costs and operational restrictions. Regulators may seek to limit certain 
oil and gas projects or make it more difficult to obtain required permits. Additionally, climate activists are 
challenging the grant of new and existing regulatory permits, and protesting at some of our facilities and 
projects. We expect that these challenges and protests are likely to continue and could delay or prohibit 
operations in certain cases. Our journey to achieving our target of becoming net zero on all emissions 
from our operations has resulted in and could continue to require additional costs. We also expect that 
actions by customers to reduce their emissions will continue to lower demand and potentially affect prices 
for fossil fuels, as will GHG emissions regulation through taxes, fees and/or other incentives. This could be 
a factor contributing to additional provisions for our assets and result in lower earnings, cancelled projects 
and potential impairment of certain assets.
The pace and extent of the energy transition could pose a risk to Shell if we decarbonise our operations 
and the energy we sell at a different speed relative to society. If we are slower than society, customers 
may prefer a different supplier, which would reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our 
reputation besides materially affecting our earnings and financial results. If we move much faster than 
society, we risk investing in technologies, markets or low-carbon products that are unsuccessful because 
there is limited demand for them. 
The physical effects of climate change such as, but not limited to, increases in temperature and sea levels 
and fluctuations in water levels could also adversely affect our operations and supply chains. 
Certain investors have decided to divest their investments in fossil fuel companies. If this were to continue, 
it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our securities and our ability to access capital 
markets. Stakeholder groups are also putting pressure on commercial and investment banks to stop 
financing fossil fuel companies. Some financial institutions have started to limit their exposure to fossil fuel 
projects. Accordingly, our ability to use financing for these types of future projects may be adversely 
affected. This could also adversely affect our potential partners’ ability to finance their portion of costs, 
either through equity or debt. 
In some countries, governments, regulators, organisations and individuals have filed lawsuits seeking to 
hold fossil fuel companies liable for costs associated with climate change. While we believe these lawsuits 
to be without merit, losing could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial 
condition. For example, in May 2021, the District Court in The Hague, Netherlands, ruled that, by 2030, 
Shell must reduce, from its consolidated subsidiaries, its Scope 1 net emissions by 45% from its 2019 levels 
and use its best efforts to reduce its Scope 2 and Scope 3 net emissions by 45% from its 2019 levels. In 
2019, our Scope 1 emissions from our consolidated subsidiaries were 86 million tonnes carbon dioxide 
equivalent, rounded. We expect to see additional regulatory requirements to provide disclosures related 
to climate risks.
In summary, rising climate change concerns, the pace at which we decarbonise our operations relative to 
society and effects of the energy transition have led and could lead to a decrease in demand and 
potentially affect prices for fossil fuels. If we are unable to find economically viable, publicly acceptable 
solutions that reduce our GHG emissions and/or GHG intensity for new and existing projects and for the 
products we sell, we could experience financial penalties or extra costs, delayed or cancelled projects, 
potential impairments of our assets, additional provisions and/or reduced production and product sales. 
This could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
How this risk is managed
Our response to the evolving risk outlook requires 
transparency and clarity around our plans and 
actions to achieve our climate target. Our climate 
change risk management approach is supported by 
standards, policies and controls, as part of our 
Health, Safety, Security and Environment and Social 
Performance (HSSE & SP) Control Framework. 
Climate change and risks resulting from GHG 
emissions are reviewed and managed in 
accordance with other significant risks through 
the Board and Executive Committee. We have 
established several dedicated climate change 
and GHG-related forums at different levels of the 
organisation. These forums seek to address, monitor 
and review climate change issues. Our strategy to 
assess and manage risks and opportunities resulting 
from climate change includes considering different 
time horizons and their relevance to risk 
identification and business planning.
We also actively monitor societal developments, 
such as regulation-driven carbon-pricing mechanisms 
and customer-driven preferences for products. We 
incorporate these into potential scenarios which 
provide insights into how the energy transition may 
unfold in the medium and long term. These insights 
and those from various other external scenarios 
(such as the IPCC Special Report 1.5°C) guide how 
we set our strategic direction, capital allocation and 
carbon emission commitments. 
Overall, mitigation of the risk is addressed through 
our strategy to accelerate the transition to net-zero 
emissions, purposefully and profitably. This 
approach has three components: 
▪ reducing the GHG emissions intensity of our 
operations. We expect to reduce our carbon 
intensity primarily through altering our product 
mix as customer (Scope 3) emissions represent 
the largest component of our carbon intensity. 
Our aim is to achieve this by shifting the focus of 
our portfolio as we build our power, hydrogen, 
biofuels, carbon capture and storage and nature-
based solutions businesses and activities; 
▪ demonstrating our resilience by aligning our 
disclosures to the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures; and
▪ working towards our target to become a net-zero 
emissions energy business by 2050.
We are also working with governments on their 
climate policy to help establish regulatory 
frameworks that will enable society to reach the 
goals of the Paris Agreement. The ruling delivered 
by the District Court in The Hague in May 2021 has 
provided an additional challenge in this context. 
We have appealed the ruling but have stated that 
we want to rise to the challenge and accelerate our 
Powering Progress strategy to become a net-zero 
emissions energy business by 2050, regardless of 
whether we win or lose the appeal.
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued
16 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
16
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Strategic risks continued
Investments in our low-carbon products and services may not achieve 
expected returns.
Further information: See "Marketing" on pages 
60-64 and "Renewables & Energy Solutions" on 
pages 73-76.
We are building our portfolio of low-carbon products and services such as electricity generated from 
solar and wind power, hydrogen and biofuels, and charging for electric vehicles through organic and 
inorganic growth.
In expanding our offerings of these low-carbon products and services, we expect to undertake 
acquisitions and form partnerships. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to realise 
the synergies from combining our respective resources and capabilities, including the development of 
new processes, systems and distribution channels. For example, it may take time to develop these areas 
through retraining our workforce and recruitment for the necessary new skills. It may take longer to realise 
the expected returns from these transactions. 
The operating margins for our low-carbon products and services may not be as high as the margins we 
have experienced historically in our oil and gas operations. Some of our acquired companies are not yet 
in full compliance with the Shell Control Framework.
Therefore, developing our low-carbon products and services is subject to challenges which could have 
a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
We maintain an integrated business model, with 
trading and optimisation, to help us manage our 
value delivery. Our investments are subject to 
financial modelling and stress-testing, due diligence 
and risk assessments to ensure that our capital is 
allocated to the most attractive low carbon 
opportunities. We rigorously monitor and evaluate 
the performance of our acquisitions against our 
expectations. Following specific assessments of 
each new acquisition, dedicated projects are put 
in place to achieve compliance with the Shell 
Control Framework. 
We operate in more than 70 countries that have differing degrees of 
political, legal and fiscal stability. This exposes us to a wide range of 
political developments that could result in changes to contractual terms, 
laws and regulations. We and our joint arrangements and associates 
also face the risk of litigation and disputes worldwide. 
Further information: See "Other regulatory and 
statutory information"  on page 216.
Risk description
Developments in politics, laws and regulations can and do affect our operations. Potential impacts, 
which we have experienced in the past, include: forced divestment of assets; expropriation of property; 
cancellation or forced renegotiation of contract rights; additional taxes including windfall taxes, 
restrictions on deductions and retroactive tax claims; antitrust claims; changes to trade compliance 
regulations; price controls; local content requirements; foreign exchange controls; changes to 
environmental regulations; changes to regulatory interpretations and enforcement; and changes to 
disclosure requirements. Many parts of the world are facing economic and fiscal challenges and growing 
pressure on cost-of-living standards. The situation is further exacerbated by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, 
which is having an unprecedented impact on gas and power markets in terms of both supply and price. 
These issues impact our business as governments, in response to political and social pressures, pursue 
policies that could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
From time to time, social and political factors play a role in unprecedented and unanticipated judicial 
outcomes that could adversely affect Shell. Non‑compliance with policies and regulations could result in 
regulatory investigations, litigation and, ultimately, sanctions. Certain governments and regulatory bodies 
have, in Shell’s opinion, exceeded their constitutional authority by: attempting unilaterally to amend or 
cancel existing agreements or arrangements; failing to honour existing contractual commitments; and 
seeking to adjudicate disputes between private litigants. Certain governments have also adopted laws 
and regulations that could potentially conflict with other countries’ laws and regulations, potentially 
subjecting us to criminal and civil sanctions. Such developments and outcomes could have a material 
adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 
How this risk is managed
We continually monitor geopolitical developments 
and societal issues relevant to our interests. Our 
Legal and Tax functions are organised globally and 
support our business lines in seeking to ensure 
compliance with local laws and fiscal regulations. 
Our Corporate Relations department liaises with 
governments in countries where we operate to 
understand and engage on local policies and 
to advocate Shell’s position on topics relevant to 
our industry. We are prepared to exit a country 
if we believe we can no longer operate there in 
accordance with our standards and applicable 
law, and we have done so in the past. 
 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued
17 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
17
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Operational risks
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has affected the safety and security of our 
people and operations in these and neighbouring countries. The resulting 
sanctions and export controls and the evolving geopolitical situation have 
caused wide-ranging challenges to our operations which could continue 
in the medium to longer term.
Further information: See "Post-balance sheet events" 
on page 307. 
Risk description
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine continues to pose wide-ranging challenges to our operations and commercial 
decisions. The immediate impacts included those relating to the safety and security of our people and 
operations in these and neighbouring countries. The subsequent sanctions and export controls imposed 
by countries around the world are having a material impact on a number of our activities, including 
supply, trading and treasury activities. More sanctions, export controls and taxes are expected. 
Given the evolving situation, there may be many other unknown factors and events that could materially 
impact our operations, which may be temporary or more permanent in nature. These risks and future 
events could impact our supply chain, commodity prices, credit, commodity trading, treasury and legal 
risks. In addition, there is potential reputational risk associated with how Shell’s decisions in response 
to evolving challenges are perceived. The tensions also create heightened cyber-security threats to our 
information technology infrastructure. The geopolitical situation may influence our future investment 
and financial decisions.
Any of these factors, individually or in aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, 
cash flows and financial condition.
How this risk is managed
In response to the invasion, a Group Crisis 
Team was set up to assess the situation, consider 
potential scenarios of how events may further 
develop and co-ordinate responses accordingly. 
Care for our people remains Shell’s top priority. 
Local crisis teams, led by the respective Country 
Chairs, have been deployed to ensure the health, 
safety and well-being of our staff, contractors and 
their families in Ukraine, Russia and neighbouring 
countries. 
We are closely monitoring and responding to the 
sanctions that have been imposed and are following 
international guidelines where relevant to our 
business activities.
The estimation of proved oil and gas reserves involves subjective 
judgements based on available information and the application 
of complex rules. This means subsequent downward adjustments 
are possible.
Further information: See "Supplementary information 
- oil and gas (unaudited)" on pages 308-326.
Risk description
The estimation of proved oil and gas reserves involves subjective judgements and determinations based 
on available geological, technical, contractual, and economic information. Estimates can change over 
time because of new information from production or drilling activities, changes in economic factors, such 
as oil and gas prices, alterations in the regulatory policies of host governments, or other events. Estimates 
also change to reflect acquisitions, divestments, new discoveries, extensions of existing fields and mines, 
and improved recovery techniques. Published proved oil and gas reserves estimates could also be subject 
to correction because of errors in the application of rules and changes in guidance. Downward 
adjustments could indicate lower future production volumes and could also lead to impairment of assets. 
This could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
How this risk is managed
A central group of reserves experts undertakes the 
primary assurance of the proved reserves bookings. 
A multidisciplinary committee reviews and endorses 
all major proved reserves bookings. Shell’s Audit 
Committee reviews all proved reserves bookings 
and Shell's CEO is responsible for final approval. 
The Internal Audit function also provides further 
assurance through audits of the control framework, 
from which information disclosed in "Supplementary 
information – oil and gas (unaudited)" is obtained. 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued
18 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
18
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Operational risks continued
Our future hydrocarbon production depends on the delivery of large and 
integrated projects and our ability to replace proved oil and gas reserves.
Further information: See "Powering Progress 
strategy" on page  6-14.
Risk description
We face numerous challenges in developing capital projects, especially those which are large and 
integrated. Challenges include: uncertain geology; frontier conditions; the existence and availability 
of necessary technology and engineering resources; the availability of skilled labour; the existence of 
transport infrastructure; project delays; the expiration of licences; delays in obtaining required permits; 
potential cost overruns; and technical, fiscal, regulatory, political and other conditions. These challenges 
are particularly relevant in certain developing and emerging-market countries, in frontier areas and in 
deep-water fields, such as off the coast of Mexico. We may fail to assess or manage these and other risks 
properly. Such potential obstacles could impair our delivery of these projects, our ability to fulfil the full 
potential value of the project as assessed when the investment was approved, and our ability to fulfil 
related contractual commitments. This could lead to impairments and could have a material adverse 
effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 
Future oil and gas production will depend on our access to new proved reserves through exploration, 
negotiations with governments and other owners of proved reserves and acquisitions, and through 
developing and applying new technologies and recovery processes to existing fields. Failure to replace 
proved reserves could result in an accelerated decrease of future production, potentially having a 
material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
How this risk is managed
We continue to explore for and mature 
hydrocarbons across our Upstream and Integrated 
Gas businesses. We use our subsurface, project 
and technical expertise, and actively manage non-
technical risks across a diversified portfolio of 
opportunities and projects. This involves adopting 
an integrated approach for all stages, from basin 
choice to development. We use competitive 
techniques and benchmark our approach 
internally and externally. 
Oil and gas production available for sale
Million boe [A]
2022 2021 2020
Shell subsidiaries 938 1,047 1,104
Shell share of joint ventures and associates 108 134 135
Total 1,046 1,181 1,239
[A] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel. 
Proved developed and undeveloped oil and gas reserves [A][B]
Million boe [C]
Dec 31, 
2022
Dec 31, 
2021
Dec 31, 
2020
Shell subsidiaries 8,317 8,456 8,222
Shell share of joint ventures and associates 1,261 909 902
Total 9,578 9,365 9,124
Attributable to non-controlling interest of Shell subsidiaries  365 267 322
[A] We manage our total proved reserves base without distinguishing between proved reserves from subsidiaries and 
those from joint ventures and associates.
[B] Includes proved reserves associated with future production that will be consumed in operations.
[C] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued
19 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
19
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Operational risks continued
The nature of our operations exposes us, and the communities in which 
we work, to a wide range of health, safety, security and environment risks. 
Further information: See "Respecting nature" on 
page 109, "Powering lives" on page 113 and 
"Safety" on pages 121-124.
Risk description
The health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) risks to which we and the communities in which we 
work are potentially exposed cover a wide spectrum, given the geographical range, operational diversity 
and technical complexity of our operations. These risks include the effects of natural disasters (including 
weather events), earthquakes, social unrest, pandemic diseases, criminal actions by external parties, and 
safety lapses. If a major risk materialises, such as an explosion or hydrocarbon leak or spill, which we 
have experienced in the past, this could result in injuries, loss of life, environmental harm, disruption of 
business activities, loss or suspension of permits, loss of our licence to operate and loss of our ability to bid 
on mineral rights. Accordingly, this could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition. 
Our operations are subject to extensive HSSE regulatory requirements that often change and are likely to 
become more stringent over time. Governments could require operators to adjust their future production 
plans, as has occurred in the Netherlands, affecting production and costs. We could incur significant 
extra costs in the future because of the need to comply with such requirements. We could also incur 
significant extra costs due to violations of or liabilities under laws and regulations that involve elements 
such as fines, penalties, clean-up costs and third-party claims. If HSSE risks materialise, they could have 
a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 
How this risk is managed
We have standards and a clear governance 
structure to help manage HSSE risks and avoid 
potential adverse effects. The standards and 
governance structure also help us to develop 
mitigation strategies aimed at ensuring that if an 
HSSE risk materialises, we avoid catastrophic 
consequences and have ways of trying to remediate 
any environmental damage. Our standards and 
governance structure are defined in our Health, 
Safety, Security, Environment and Social 
Performance (HSSE & SP) Control Framework and 
supporting guidance documents. These describe 
how key controls should be operated, for example 
to ensure safe production and implementation of 
maintenance activities. When planning new major 
projects, we conduct detailed environmental, social 
and health impact assessments. We routinely 
practise implementing our emergency response 
plans to significant risks (such as a spill, toxic 
substances, fire or explosion).
The Shell Internal Audit & Investigation team 
provides assurance on the HSSE & SP controls to the 
Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee.
A further erosion of the business and operating environment in Nigeria 
could have a material adverse effect on us. 
Further information: See "Upstream" on page 49. 
Risk description
In our Nigerian operations, we face various risks and adverse conditions. These include: security incidents 
affecting the safety of our people, host communities and operations; sabotage and crude theft; ongoing 
litigation; limited infrastructure; challenges presented by delayed government and partner funding and 
budget delays; and regional instability created by militant activities. Some of these risks and adverse 
conditions, such as security issues affecting the safety of our people and sabotage and theft have 
occurred in the past and are likely to continue in the future, with a potential material adverse effect 
on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
How this risk is managed
We test the economic and operational resilience 
of our Nigerian projects against a wide range of 
assumptions and scenarios. We seek to 
proportionally share risks and funding commitments 
with joint-venture partners. When we participate in 
joint ventures in Nigeria, we require that they 
operate in accordance with good industry practice. 
We monitor the security situation, and liaise with 
host communities, and governmental and non-
governmental organisations to help promote 
peaceful and safe operations. 
An erosion of our business reputation could have a material adverse 
effect on our brand, our ability to secure new resources or access capital 
markets, and on our licence to operate. 
Further information: See "Other regulatory and 
statutory information" on page 215 and "Powering 
lives" on page 119. 
Risk description
Our reputation is an important asset. The Shell General Business Principles (Principles) govern how Shell 
and its individual companies conduct their affairs, and the Shell Code of Conduct tells employees and 
contract staff how to behave in line with the Principles. Our challenge is to ensure that all employees 
and contract staff comply with the Principles and the Code of Conduct. Real or perceived failures of 
governance or regulatory compliance or a perceived lack of understanding of how our operations 
affect surrounding communities could harm our reputation. 
Societal expectations of companies are increasing, with a focus on business ethics, quality of products, 
contribution to society, safety and minimising damage to the environment. There is increasing focus on the 
role of oil and gas in the context of climate change and energy transition. This could negatively affect our 
brand, reputation and licence to operate, which could limit our ability to deliver our strategy, reduce 
consumer demand for our branded and non-branded products, harm our ability to secure new resources 
and contracts, and restrict our ability to access capital markets or attract staff. Many other factors, 
including the materialisation of other risks discussed in this section, could negatively affect our reputation 
and could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 
How this risk is managed
We continually assess and monitor the external 
environment for potential risks to our reputation. 
We engage in ongoing dialogue with our key 
stakeholders such as investors, industry and trade 
groups, universities, governments and non-
governmental organisations (NGOs) to gain greater 
insights into societal expectations of our business. 
We have mitigation plans for identified brand and 
reputation risks at the Group, country and line of 
business level. Our country chairs are responsible for 
implementing country reputation plans which are 
updated annually. We continually develop and 
defend our brand in line with Shell’s purpose and 
promises, and target our investments to drive brand 
differentiation, relevance and preference. 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued
20 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
20
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Operational risks continued
We rely heavily on information technology systems in our operations. Further information: See "Corporate" on page 77. 
Risk description
Our continued focus on digitalising our business processes, and our increasing dependence on 
information technology (IT) systems for our core operations mean that we are heavily reliant on secure, 
affordable and resilient IT services.
Externally, we observe several dynamics impacting our IT and cyber risk profile: deterioration of the cyber 
security threat landscape represented by increasing volumes of attacks and sophisticated cyber actors, 
geopolitical conflicts and increases in regulations across the markets in which Shell operates. We have 
observed an increase in social engineering (manipulation of individuals) as a method of financially driven 
cybercrime. Threat actors are targeting bank account changes, invoice settlement and identity fraud to 
extract money from corporations. Ransomware attacks on corporations continue to be widespread. These 
contribute to potential breaches and disruptions of critical IT services, such as the security incident 
involving the transfer of files which Shell experienced in 2021. If the breaches are not detected early and 
responded to effectively, they could impact our operations and the safety of our staff and/or harm our 
reputation and/or result in material regulatory fines. This could have a material adverse effect on our 
earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 
How this risk is managed
We operate globally integrated Information Risk 
Management (IRM) and cyber-defence teams that 
scan, assure and defend our global IT landscape. 
Our cyber-security capabilities are embedded into 
our IT systems, and our IT is protected by various 
detective and protective technologies. Identification 
and assessment capabilities are built into our 
support processes and align to industry best 
practices. The security of IT services, operated by 
external IT companies, is managed through 
contractual clauses and additionally through formal 
supplier assurance reports for critical IT services.
As a response to the growing set of threat actors 
and sophisticated forms of attacks resulting from the 
Russia/Ukraine war, we have prioritised accelerated 
closure of critical vulnerabilities identified by the 
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency 
(CISA), performing rigorous rationalisation of high-
risk entitlements, and supported our withdrawal/ 
divestment from Russian operations. We continue 
to track cyber-attacks, threat intelligence, and 
vulnerabilities in our estate. 
Our business exposes us to risks of social instability, criminality, civil 
unrest, terrorism, piracy, cyber disruption and acts of war that could 
have a material adverse effect on our operations. 
Further information: See "Respecting nature" on 
page 109, "Powering lives" on page 113 and 
"Safety" on pages 121-124.
Risk description
As seen in recent years, these risks can manifest themselves in the countries where we operate and 
elsewhere. These risks affect people, our operations and assets. Potential risks, which we have 
experienced in the past, include: acts of terrorism; acts of criminality including maritime piracy; cyber 
espionage or disruptive cyber attacks; conflicts including war - such as Russia's invasion of Ukraine; 
malicious acts carried out by individuals within Shell - such as increased data exfiltration during 
divestments; civil unrest which for example caused disruptions to our Trading & Supply distribution 
operations in South Africa, and environmental and climate activism (including disruptions by non-
governmental and political organisations) especially in the USA and north-west Europe.
The above risks can threaten the safe operation of our assets and the transport of our products. They can 
harm the well-being of our people, inflict loss of life and injuries, damage the environment and disrupt our 
operational activities. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition.
How this risk is managed
We seek to obtain the best possible information to 
enable us to assess threats and risks. We conduct 
detailed threat and risk assessments for all our 
assets and activities, and implement appropriate 
measures to deter, detect and respond to security 
risks. Further mitigations include strengthening the 
security of assets, reducing our exposure as 
appropriate and using journey management plans. 
We also invest in information risk management 
capabilities and crisis management and business 
continuity measures. We conduct training and 
awareness campaigns for staff and provide them 
with travel and health advice and access to 24/7 
assistance while travelling. We learn from incidents, 
in order to continually improve our security risk 
management in Shell.
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued
21 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
21
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Operational risks continued
Production from the Groningen field in the Netherlands causes 
earthquakes that affect local communities.
Further information: See "Upstream" on pages 
46-47.
Risk description
Shell and ExxonMobil are 50:50 shareholders in Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (NAM). An 
important part of NAM’s gas production comes from the onshore Groningen gas field, in which EBN, a 
Dutch government entity, has a 40% interest and NAM a 60% interest. The gas field is in the process of 
being closed down owing to earthquakes induced by gas production. Some of these earthquakes have 
damaged houses and other structures in the region, resulting in complaints and lawsuits from the local 
community. The Dutch government has announced it intends to accelerate the close-down, bringing the 
end of production forward from 2030 to possibly 2023 or 2024. The exact close-down date is still to 
be decided and depends on the Dutch government’s considerations of security of gas supply. While 
we expect the earlier close-down of the Groningen gas field to further reduce the number and strength 
of earthquakes in the region, any additional earthquakes could have further adverse effects on our 
earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 
How this risk is managed
NAM is working with the Dutch government and 
other stakeholders to fulfil its obligations to residents 
of the area. These include compensating for 
damage caused by the earthquakes and paying to 
strengthen houses where this is required for safety 
considerations. Negotiations with the state are 
being conducted to determine how to manage the 
accelerated close-down. Specific remediations 
within the agreed scope of responsibilities are 
planned. NAM's joint-venture partners will review 
its financial robustness against different scenarios 
for Groningen's liabilities and costs, with the aim of 
the venture being able to self-fund any additional 
expenses and claims.
We are exposed to treasury and trading risks, including liquidity risk, 
interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and credit risk. We are affected by 
the global macroeconomic environment and the conditions of financial 
and commodity markets. 
Further information: See "Financial framework" on 
page 31 and Note 25 to the "Consolidated 
Financial Statements" on page 293-299.
Risk description
Our subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates are subject to differing economic and financial 
market conditions around the world. Political or economic instability affects such markets.
We use debt instruments, such as bonds and commercial paper, to raise significant amounts of capital. 
Should access to debt markets become more challenging, the impact on our liquidity could have a 
material adverse effect on our operations. Group financing costs could also be affected by interest rate 
fluctuations or any credit rating deterioration.
We are exposed to changes in currency values and to exchange controls as a result of our substantial 
international operations. Our reporting currency is the US dollar, although, to a material extent, we 
also hold assets and are exposed to liabilities in other currencies. While we undertake some foreign 
exchange hedging, we do not do so for all our activities. Even where hedging is in place, it may not 
function as expected.
Commodity trading is an important component of our businesses. Processing, managing and monitoring 
many trading transactions across the world, some of them complex, exposes us to operational and market 
risks, including commodity price risks. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has led to supply constraints and 
increased commodity price volatility in 2022, together with additional sanctions and export controls 
imposed by countries around the world, both of which have an impact on our trading activities. We use 
derivative instruments such as futures, options and contracts for difference to hedge market risks. Due to 
differences between derivative instruments available in the market to hedge market risks and the actual 
market risks we are exposed to, perfect hedging is not always achievable. Therefore, our hedging has 
from time to time not functioned as expected and may not function as expected in the future. 
We are exposed to credit risk; our counterparties could fail or be unable to meet their payment and/or 
performance obligations under contractual arrangements.
Our pension plans invest in government bonds, so they could be affected by a sovereign debt downgrade 
or other default.
If any of the above risks materialise, they could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows 
and financial condition.
How this risk is managed
We use various financial instruments for managing 
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate 
movements. Our treasury operations are highly 
centralised and seek to manage credit exposures 
associated with our substantial cash, foreign 
exchange and interest rate positions. Our portfolio 
of cash investments is diversified to avoid 
concentrating risk in any one instrument, country or 
counterparty. Other than in exceptional cases, the 
use of external derivative instruments is confined to 
specialist trading and central treasury organisations 
that have the appropriate skills, experience, 
supervision, control and reporting systems. 
We have credit risk policies in place which seek 
to ensure that products are sold to customers with 
appropriate creditworthiness. These policies 
include detailed credit analysis and monitoring 
of customers against counterparty credit limits. 
Where appropriate, netting arrangements, credit 
insurance, prepayments and collateral are used 
to manage credit risk.
We maintain committed credit facilities. 
Management believes it has access to sufficient 
debt funding sources (capital markets) and to 
undrawn committed borrowing facilities to meet 
foreseeable requirements. 
In effecting commodity trades and derivative 
contracts, we operate within procedures and 
policies designed to ensure that market risks are 
managed within authorised limits and trading can 
only be performed by staff with the appropriate 
skills and experience. We closely monitor 
developments in sanctions and export controls to 
ensure compliance with international guidelines. 
Senior Management regularly reviews mandated 
trading limits. We operated with enhanced risk 
management and increased governance to protect 
the business during the period following Russia's 
invasion of Ukraine. A department that is 
independent from our traders monitors our market 
risk exposures daily, using value-at-risk techniques 
alongside other risk metrics as appropriate.
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued
22 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
22
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Operational risks continued
Our future performance depends on the successful development 
and deployment of new technologies that provide new products 
and solutions.
Further information: See "Powering Progress strategy" 
on pages  6-14.
Risk description
Technology and innovation are essential to our efforts to help meet the world’s energy demands 
competitively. If we fail to effectively develop or deploy new technology, products and solutions, 
or fail to make full, effective use of our data in a timely and cost-effective manner, there could be a 
material adverse effect on the delivery of our strategy and our licence to operate. We operate in 
environments where advanced technologies are used. In developing new technologies, products and 
solutions, unknown or unforeseeable technological failures or environmental and health effects could 
harm our reputation and licence to operate or expose us to litigation or sanctions. The associated 
costs of new technology are sometimes underestimated. Sometimes the development of new 
technology is subject to delays. If we are unable to develop the right technology and products in a 
timely and cost-effective manner, or if we develop technologies, products and solutions that harm the 
environment or people's health, there could be a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows 
and financial condition.
How this risk is managed
Shell’s technology organisation and the relevant 
business lines work together to determine the content, 
scope and budget for developing new technology that 
supports our activities. The new technology is developed 
using a robust technology maturation process, to 
systematically de-risk both technical and commercial 
risks, while ensuring portfolio alignment with Shell’s 
strategic ambitions and deployment commitments. A 
significant proportion of Shell’s technology contributes to 
our Renewables and Energy Solutions portfolio and our 
emissions reduction targets. We benefit from key 
relationships with leading academic research institutes 
and universities, and from working with start-ups. In our 
Shell GameChanger programme, we help companies to 
mature early-stage technologies. In our Shell Ventures 
scheme, we invest in and partner with start-ups and small 
and medium-sized enterprises that are in the early stages 
of developing new technologies. 
We have substantial pension commitments, the funding of which is 
subject to capital market risks and other factors.
Further information: See "Financial framework" 
on page 31.
Risk description
Liabilities associated with defined benefit pension plans are significant, and the cash funding 
requirement of such plans can also involve significant liabilities. They both depend on various 
assumptions. Volatility in capital markets or government policies could affect investment performance 
and interest rates, causing significant changes to the funding level of future liabilities and/or short- 
term liquidity requirements. Changes in assumptions for mortality, retirement age or pensionable 
remuneration at retirement could also cause significant changes to the funding level of future 
liabilities. We operate a number of defined benefit pension plans and, in case of a shortfall, we could 
be required to make substantial cash contributions (depending on the applicable local regulations). 
This could result in a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
How this risk is managed
A pensions forum chaired by the Chief Financial Officer 
oversees Shell’s input to pension strategy, policy and 
operation. A risk committee supports the forum in 
reviewing the results of assurance processes with respect 
to pension risks. Local trustees manage the funded 
defined benefit pension plans, and the contributions paid 
are based on independent actuarial valuations that align 
with local regulations. Pension fund liquidity is managed 
by holding liquid assets and maintaining credit facilities.
We mainly self-insure our hazard risk exposures. Consequently, we 
could incur significant financial losses from different types of risks that 
are not insured with third-party insurers. 
Further information: See "Corporate" on page 77.
Risk description
Our Group insurance companies (wholly owned subsidiaries) provide insurance coverage to Shell 
subsidiaries and entities in which Shell has an interest. These subsidiaries and entities may also insure 
a portion of their risk exposures with third parties, but such external insurance would not provide any 
material coverage in the event of a large-scale safety or environmental incident. Accordingly, in the 
event of a material incident, we would have to meet our obligations without access to material 
proceeds from third-party insurers. We have in the past incurred adverse impacts from events, such 
as Hurricane Ida in 2021. We may, in the future, incur significant losses from different types of hazard 
risks that are not insured with third-party insurers, potentially resulting in a material adverse effect on 
our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 
How this risk is managed
We continually assess the safety performance of our 
operations and make risk mitigation recommendations, 
where relevant, to keep the risk of an accident as low 
as possible. Our insurance subsidiaries are adequately 
capitalised and they may transfer risks to third-party 
insurers where economical, effective and relevant. 
Many of our major projects and operations are conducted in joint 
arrangements or with associates. This could reduce our degree of 
control and our ability to identify and manage risks. 
Further information: See "Other regulatory and statutory 
information"  on page 216.
Risk description
When we are not the operator, we have less influence and control over the behaviour, performance 
and operating costs of joint arrangements or associates. Despite having less control, we could still be 
exposed to the risks associated with these operations, including reputational, litigation (where joint 
and several liability could apply) and government sanction risks. For example, our partners or 
members of a joint arrangement or an associate, (particularly local partners in developing countries), 
may be unable to meet their financial or other obligations to projects, threatening the viability of a 
given project. Where we are the operator of a joint arrangement, the other partner(s) could still be 
able to veto or block certain decisions, which could be to our overall detriment. Accordingly, where 
we have limited influence, we are exposed to operational risks that could have a material adverse 
effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 
How this risk is managed
For every major project where we share control, 
Shell appoints a Joint Venture Asset Manager, whose 
responsibility is to manage performance and create and 
protect value for Shell. The Joint Venture Asset Manager 
seeks to influence operators and other partners to adapt 
their practices in order to drive value appropriately and 
to mitigate identified risks. An annual assurance review 
assesses how the joint venture’s standards and processes 
align with those of Shell. The Joint Venture Asset 
Manager follows up on any gaps identified. 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued
23 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
23
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Conduct and culture risks
We are exposed to regulatory and conduct risk in our trading operations. Further information: See "Other regulatory and 
statutory information" on page 215 and Note 25 
to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on 
pages 293-299.
Risk description
Commodity trading is an important component of our Upstream, Integrated Gas, Renewables and Energy 
Solutions, and Chemicals and Products businesses. Our commodity trading entities are subject to many 
regulations including requirements for standards of conduct. The risk of ineffective controls, poor oversight 
of trading activities, and the risk that traders could deliberately operate outside compliance limits and 
controls, either individually or as a group, has occurred. This has resulted in losses in the past and may 
result in further losses in the future. The rapidly changing regulatory environment creates a risk of 
insufficient, delayed or incorrect implementation of new or changes to existing regulatory requirements. 
Violations of such regulatory requirements could also expose us and/or our employees to regulatory fines 
and have an adverse effect on our licence to operate. These risks could have a material adverse effect on 
our earnings, cash flows, reputation and financial condition. 
How this risk is managed
We maintain a trading compliance function 
managed by a regulated Chief Compliance Officer 
with adequate resources, a comprehensive 
governance structure, including mitigating controls 
(both automated and non-automated), and 
established reporting lines. Staff receive clear 
guidance through the Shell Code of Conduct, the 
organisation’s Trading Compliance Manual, a 
specific compliance website, training modules where 
completion is monitored, and additional quarterly 
training sessions. Shell leaders frequently reinforce 
the importance of managing compliance and 
conduct risk in the trading organisation.
Violations of antitrust and competition laws carry fines and expose us 
and/or our employees to criminal sanctions and civil suits.
Further information: See "Powering lives" on page 
119 and "Other regulatory and statutory 
information" on page 215.
Risk description
Antitrust and competition laws apply to Shell and its joint arrangements and associates in the vast 
majority of countries where we do business. Shell and its joint arrangements and associates have been 
fined for violations of antitrust and competition laws in the past. This includes a number of fines by the 
European Commission Directorate-General for Competition (DG COMP). Because of DG COMP’s fining 
guidelines, any future conviction of Shell or any of its joint arrangements or associates for violation of EU 
competition law could potentially result in significantly larger fines and have a material adverse effect on 
us. Violation of antitrust laws is a criminal offence in many countries, and individuals can be imprisoned 
or fined. In certain circumstances, directors may receive director disqualification orders. It is also now 
common for persons or corporations allegedly injured by antitrust violations to sue for damages. 
Any violation of these laws can harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on 
our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
How this risk is managed
We maintain an antitrust programme with adequate 
resources, a comprehensive governance structure 
and established reporting lines. Staff receive clear 
guidance that includes requirements in Shell’s Ethics 
and Compliance Manual, an antitrust-specific 
website, training modules where completion is 
monitored and regular messages from Shell leaders 
on the importance of managing antitrust risks. Staff 
must understand and comply with the Protect Shell 
Policy, which explains Shell's position on managing 
antitrust risks in engagements with parties external 
to Shell. In response to fast-moving external antitrust 
developments/trends, internal, guidance is 
continually being monitored to ensure that it remains 
current (for example, recent guidance on 
collaboration in the energy transition and US 
enforcement action with regard to interlocking 
directors).
Violations of anti-bribery, tax-evasion and anti-money laundering laws 
carry fines and expose us and/or our employees to criminal sanctions 
and civil suits.
Further information: See "Powering lives" on page 
119, "Other regulatory and statutory information" 
on page 215 and Note 31 to the "Consolidated 
Financial Statements" on pages 303-305.
Risk description
Anti-bribery, tax-evasion and anti-money laundering laws apply to Shell, its joint arrangements and 
associates in all countries where we do business. Shell and its joint arrangements and associates have in 
the past settled with the US Securities and Exchange Commission regarding violations of the US Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act. Any violation of anti-bribery, tax-evasion or anti-money laundering laws, including 
potential violations associated with Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company Limited's 
investment in Nigerian oil block OPL 245 and the 2011 settlement of litigation pertaining to that block, 
could harm our reputation or have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial 
condition. Violations of such laws also could expose us and/or our employees to criminal sanctions, 
civil suits and other consequences, such as debarment and the revocation of licences.
How this risk is managed
We maintain an anti-bribery, anti-tax evasion and 
anti-money laundering (ABC/AML) programme with 
adequate resources, a comprehensive governance 
structure and established reporting lines. Staff 
receive clear guidance, which includes requirements 
in Shell’s Ethics and Compliance Manual, an ABC/
AML-specific website, training modules where 
completion is monitored and regular messages from 
Shell leaders on the importance of managing ABC/
AML risks. 
As regards OPL 245, we have always maintained 
that the 2011 settlement was fully legal and on 
March 17, 2021, the court in Milan, Italy, acquitted 
Shell and its former employees of all charges on the 
grounds that there was no case to answer. On July 
19, 2022, the Milan public prosecutor withdrew its 
appeal, meaning the criminal case is now closed 
and the acquittal of all defendants is final. On July 
21, 2022, the Dutch Public Prosecutor's office 
announced it had dismissed its investigation into 
bribery allegations related to OPL 245. On 
November 11, 2022, the Court of Appeal rejected 
the Federal Republic of Nigeria’s civil appeal of 
the March 17, 2021 decision.
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued
24 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
24
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Conduct and culture risks continued
Violations of data protection laws carry fines and expose us and/or 
our employees to criminal sanctions and civil suits.
Further information: See "Other regulatory and 
statutory information" on page 215. 
Risk description
Data privacy and the management of personal data have become an issue of increasing importance 
and focus for companies and regulators in recent years. Following the implementation of the EU General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in May 2018, we have on a global basis seen updates to, or the 
introduction of, data privacy laws largely based on the GDPR. More than 100 countries globally now 
have data privacy laws. Shell companies are increasingly processing large volumes of personal data as 
we continue to acquire small companies with relatively large amounts of customer data. As we accelerate 
the delivery of our Powering Progress strategy, we expect to acquire an increasing number of companies. 
In doing so, we must consider how this is done responsibly, including managing cyber risks and managing 
personal data effectively. In some countries that are key to Shell’s business operations, such as China, 
relevant legislation continues to be amended or introduced. Shell must be able to adapt dynamically 
to such legislative changes and be capable of updating our internal programmes if necessary. Many 
countries require mandatory notification of data breaches often within short time frames (72 hours under 
the GDPR) in certain situations. In these circumstances we might be required to report to affected 
individuals and regulators in the relevant countries. Non-compliance with data protection laws could 
harm individuals and expose us to regulatory investigations. This could result in fines, which could be up 
to 4% of global annual turnover if under the GDPR; orders to stop processing certain data; harm to our 
reputation; and loss of the trust of existing and potential customers, stakeholders, governments, and 
employees. With regard to data breaches, we notified a number of data privacy regulators in 2022 of 
personal data breaches and have had fines issued against us. In addition to imposing fines, regulators 
may also issue orders to stop processing personal data, which could disrupt operations. We could also 
be subject to litigation from persons or entities allegedly affected by data protection violations.
Violation of data protection laws is a criminal offence in some countries, and individuals can be 
imprisoned or fined. Any violation of these laws could harm our reputation and have a material adverse 
effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
How this risk is managed
Over the last decade, the Shell Group has 
continued to invest in and develop a mature and 
robust privacy compliance programme based on 
our Binding Corporate Rules ("BCRs"). BCRs are 
a pragmatic way to enable large corporations to 
generate value from personal data by collecting 
them and sharing them between Group companies 
and are perceived as a positive mechanism by data 
privacy regulators for enabling lawful data sharing 
and demonstrating accountability within large 
corporate groups. BCRs allow intra-group transfers 
of personal data without needing to enter into 
additional complex intra-group agreements. The 
overall objective of the programme is to enable the 
Shell Group of companies to collect, handle and 
manage personal data in a professional, ethical, 
and lawful manner.
The Chief Privacy Officer also serves as the legally 
appointed "Data Protection Officer" (DPO) under 
the GDPR and other applicable data privacy laws, 
save where there is a requirement to have a locally 
based DPO, such as in China and the Phillippines. 
Our staff receive clear guidance which includes 
requirements in Shell’s Ethics and Compliance 
Manual, a website focusing on data privacy, 
training modules where completion is monitored, 
and regular messages from Shell leaders on the 
importance of managing data privacy risks. 
We monitor new and imminent data privacy 
legislation and ensure we have a robust impact 
assessment process aligned with the relevant 
businesses. We design operations and processes 
with privacy requirements and build controls into our 
processes and practices which involve the handling 
of personal data. 
We have and continue to update a Group-wide 
incident management process designed to 
immediately identify and remediate data breaches. 
The process also helps us to comply with country-
level requirements for reporting breaches. We 
continue to address challenges with compliance in 
data-heavy companies controlled by Shell but not 
yet fully integrated into our systems. 
Newly acquired companies are expected to 
become compliant with our Binding Corporate 
Rules within three years of acquisition and there is 
currently a multi-year programme under way to 
achieve compliance. IT remediation work remains 
a priority in such companies, as does the 
strengthening of programmes to support data 
privacy compliance. 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued
25 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
25
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Conduct and culture risks continued
Violations of trade compliance laws and regulations, including sanctions, 
carry fines and expose us and our employees to criminal proceedings and 
civil suits.
Further information: See "Other regulatory and 
statutory information" on page 215.
Risk description
We use "trade compliance" as an umbrella term for various national and international laws designed to 
regulate the movement of items across national boundaries and restrict or prohibit trade, financial flows 
and other dealings with certain parties, countries and territories. For example, the EU and the USA 
continue to impose comprehensive sanctions on countries and territories such as Syria, North Korea, and 
Crimea and other territories in Eastern Ukraine. The USA continues to have comprehensive sanctions 
against Iran and Cuba. The EU, UK and some other nations such as Canada and Australia continue to 
maintain targeted sanctions against Iran. The EU and the USA introduced sectoral sanctions against 
Venezuela in 2017, which the USA expanded in 2018 and 2019. The US sanctions primarily target 
the government of Venezuela and the oil and gas industry. 
In 2014, the EU and the USA imposed additional restrictions and controls directed at defined oil and gas 
activities in Russia, as well as restricting access to EU and USA financing sources for certain Russian state-
owned entities and military and dual use controls. These remain in force. The USA introduced further 
restrictions regarding Russia in 2017, expanding them in 2018. In February 2022, countries around the 
world began imposing additional sanctions and export controls against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine 
including regional trade bans, designations of entities (including Russian banks and state-owned entities) 
and individuals as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Parties, and restrictions on access by 
Russia to financial systems. Export controls have also been introduced targeting Russian defence, 
aerospace, oil and gas related technology, IT and maritime sectors. The EU, USA and UK have also 
adopted a significant number of trade controls on oil, petroleum products and a wide range of products 
and technologies. These restrictions are subject to different wind-down periods and limited exceptions. 
Furthermore, it is likely that sanctions against Russia will continue to escalate. A number of countries have 
also implemented significant new sanctions against Belarus for its role in the Russian invasion. Russia has 
in turn adopted a significant number of countermeasures including making it an offence to take steps to 
comply with foreign sanctions.
Many other nations are also adopting trade compliance programmes similar to those administered by the 
EU and the USA. Since January 2021, the UK has maintained a legal framework for trade compliance 
that is separate and distinct from those of the EU and the USA.
Abiding by all the laws and regulations on trade compliance and sanctions is often complex and 
challenging because of factors such as: the expansion of sanctions; the frequent addition of prohibited 
parties as well as other measures; the number of markets in which we operate; the risk of differences in 
how jurisdictions apply sanctions; and the large number of transactions we process. Shell has voluntarily 
self-disclosed potential violations of sanctions in the past.
Any violation of sanctions could lead to loss of import or export privileges and significant penalties on or 
prosecution of Shell or its employees. This could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect 
on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
How this risk is managed
We continue to develop and maintain a trade 
compliance programme with adequate resources, 
robust screening protocols, a comprehensive 
governance structure and established reporting 
lines. Staff receive clear guidance, which includes 
requirements in Shell’s Ethics and Compliance 
Manual, a specific website for trade compliance, 
training modules where completion is monitored 
and regular messages from Shell leaders on the 
importance of managing trade compliance risks. The 
effectiveness of the trade compliance programme is 
assessed annually (or more frequently if necessary) 
and we are continually seeking ways to improve it. 
Investors should also consider the following, which could limit shareholder remedies.
Other (generally applicable to an investment in securities)
The Company’s Articles of Association determine the jurisdiction for shareholder disputes. This could limit 
shareholder remedies. 
Risk description
Our Articles of Association generally require that all disputes between our shareholders in such capacity and the Company or our subsidiaries (or our Directors or 
former Directors), or between the Company and our Directors or former Directors, be exclusively resolved by arbitration in The Hague, the Netherlands, under the 
Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce. At the 2023 AGM, shareholders will be asked to approve updated Articles of Association that 
change the place of any arbitration to London, the United Kingdom. Our Articles of Association also provide that, if this provision is to be determined invalid or 
unenforceable for any reason, the dispute could only be brought before the courts of England and Wales. Accordingly, the ability of shareholders to obtain 
monetary or other relief, including in respect of securities law claims, could be determined in accordance with these provisions. 
Strategic Report
Risk factors continued
26 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
26
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Progress on strategy –
year in review
Performance indicators Financial delivery
These indicators enable management to evaluate 
Shell’s performance against our strategy and 
operating plans during the year. They are also 
used as part of the determination of Executive 
Directors’ remuneration. See "Directors’ 
Remuneration Report" on pages 178-182.
Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion)
68 2021: 45
Cash flow from operating activities is the total of all the cash receipts and 
payments associated with our sales of oil, gas, chemicals and other products. 
The components that provide a reconciliation from income for the period are 
listed in the "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows". This indicator reflects 
our ability to generate cash to service and reduce our debt and for 
distributions to shareholders and for investments.
See "Financial framework" on page 32.
Progress in the energy transition
Selling lower-carbon products (%)
60 2021: 65
The percentage of Marketing segment Adjusted Earnings from lower-carbon 
energy products (on a life cycle basis), defined as biofuels and EV charging, 
as well as non-energy products, defined as lubricants, bitumen, sulphur, and 
earnings from convenience retail.
See "Our journey to net zero" on pages 101-102.
Reducing operational emissions 
(thousand tonnes CO2)
2,010 2021: 3,988
GHG abatement projects in 2022 that resulted in sustained GHG reductions 
(e.g. flare reduction projects or energy efficiency projects), site closures and 
decommissioning or transformations, and use of renewable electricity for 
Scope 2 reduction. 
See "Our journey to net zero" on pages 101-102.
Electric vehicle (EV) charge points (thousand)
139 2021: 86
All charge points in Mobility organisation which includes both public 
out-of-home and Shell Recharge Solutions.
See "Our journey to net zero" on pages 101-102.
Strategic Report
27
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Operational excellence
Asset management excellence
Upstream controllable availability (%)
84.7 2021: 87.8
Upstream controllable availability performance reflects our ability to 
optimally run our Upstream assets. Reliability issues, turnarounds and 
maintenance at own-operated or third-party facilities all impact controllable 
availability, but it excludes the impact of extreme unexpected events that 
are outside our control such as government restrictions and hurricanes. 
Upstream controllable availability includes all Shell-operated assets 
(excluding Groningen) and selected assets not operated by Shell, 
but for which Shell has strategic influence. 
Midstream availability (%)
89.3 2021: 87.3
Midstream availability shows to what extent liquefied natural gas (LNG) 
assets are ready to process product as a comparison with capacity, 
considering the impact of planned and unplanned maintenance.
Refinery and chemical plant availability (%)
95.5 2021: 95.6
Refinery and chemical plant availability is the weighted average of the 
actual uptime of plants as a percentage of their maximum possible uptime. 
The weighting is based on the capital employed, adjusted for cash and non-
current liabilities. This indicator is a measure of the operational excellence 
of our refinery and chemical plant facilities.
 
Project delivery excellence
Project delivery on schedule (%)
69 2021: 87
Project delivery reflects our capability to complete major projects on time 
and within budget on the basis of the targets set in our annual business plan. 
Project delivery on schedule measures the percentage of projects delivered 
on schedule.
Project delivery on budget (%)
103 2021: 104
Project delivery on budget reflects the aggregate cost against the aggregate 
budget for those projects, where a figure greater than 100% means over budget. 
Customer excellence
Customer satisfaction (index)
8.3 2021: 8.2
The customer satisfaction index (CSI) score is generated from a transactional 
survey programme measuring performance (customer interactions). CSI is 
calculated as the average of customer satisfaction scores from email surveys.
Brand preference (%)
13.8 2021: 14.2
Brand Share Preference is the percentage of customers who answer 'Shell' 
in response to the question: "Assuming that all the fuel station companies that 
you would consider are conveniently located, which ONE company do you 
prefer most?". Responses are taken from survey respondents in more than 
60 countries covering both fuel and non-fuel retail B2C customers.
 Safety
 
Personal safety 
(SIF-F cases per 100 million working hours)
1.7 2021: 6.9
Serious Injury, Illness and Fatality (SIF) is defined as a serious work-related 
injury or illness that resulted in fatality or a life-altering event, which is 
defined as a long-term or permanent injury or illness with significant 
impact on daily activities. Serious Injury and Fatality Frequency (SIF-F) 
is calculated by dividing the number of employee and contractor SIF 
by 100 million working hours.
See "Safety" on page 121. 
 
Process safety (number of events)
66 2021: 103 [A]
A Tier 1 process safety event is an unplanned or uncontrolled release of any 
material, including non-toxic and non-flammable materials, from a process 
with the greatest actual consequence resulting in harm to employees, 
contract staff, or a neighbouring community, damage to equipment, or 
exceeding a threshold quantity, as defined by the API Recommended 
Practice 754 and IOGP Standard 456. A Tier 2 process safety event 
is a release of lesser consequence.
See "Safety" on page 121.
[A] 2021 adjustment on Tier 1+2 count from 102 to 103 due to an event identified after 
publication.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Performance indicators continued
28
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Group results 
 Key statistics
 
$ million, except where indicated
2022 2021 2020
Income/(loss) attributable to Shell plc shareholders  42,309  20,101  (21,680) 
Income attributable to non-controlling interest  565  529  146 
Income/(loss) for the period 42,874 20,630 (21,534)
Current cost of supplies adjustment (1,312) (3,148) 1,833
Total segment earnings [A][B][C], of which:  41,562  17,482  (19,701) 
Integrated Gas  22,212  8,060  (7,230) 
Upstream  16,222  9,603  (9,300) 
Marketing  2,133  3,535  4,081 
Chemicals and Products 4,515  404  (3,821) 
Renewables and Energy Solutions  (1,059)  (1,514)  (479) 
Corporate  (2,461)  (2,606)  (2,952) 
Identified Items [C]  1,243 (2,216) (24,767)
Adjusted Earnings [C] 39,870 19,289 4,846
Adjusted EBITDA [C] 84,289 55,004 36,533
Capital expenditure 22,600 19,000 16,585
Cash capital expenditure [C] 24,833 19,698 17,827
Operating expenses [C] 39,477 35,964 34,789
Underlying operating expenses [C] 39,456 35,309 32,502
Return on average capital employed [C]  16.7 %  8.8 %  (6.8) %
Net Debt at December 31 [D]  44,837  52,556 75,386
Gearing at December 31 [D]  18.9 %  23.1 %  32.2 %
Oil and gas production (thousand boe/d)  2,864  3,237  3,386 
Proved oil and gas reserves at December 31 (million boe)  9,578  9,365  9,124 
[A] Segment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. See Note 8 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 265-269.
[B] Revised to conform with reporting segment changes applicable from January 1, 2022.
[C] See "Non-GAAP measures reconciliations" on pages 362-365.
[D] See Note 20 "Debt" on pages 279-280 and "Non-GAAP measures reconciliations" on pages 362-365.
Earnings 2022-2021
Income attributable to Shell plc shareholders in 2022 was $42,309 
million, compared with $20,101 million in 2021. With non-controlling 
interest included, income for the period in 2022 was $42,874 million, 
compared with $20,630 million in 2021. After current cost of supplies 
adjustment, total segment earnings in 2022 were $41,562 million, 
compared with $17,482 million in 2021.
Earnings on a current cost of supplies basis (CCS earnings) exclude the 
effect of changes in the oil price on inventory carrying amounts, after 
making allowance for the tax effect. The purchase price of volumes sold 
in the period is based on the current cost of supplies during the same 
period, rather than on the historic cost calculated on a first-in, first-out 
(FIFO) basis. When oil prices are decreasing, CCS earnings are likely 
to be higher than earnings calculated on a FIFO basis and, when prices 
are increasing, CCS earnings are likely to be lower than earnings 
calculated on a FIFO basis. 
Integrated Gas earnings in 2022 were $22,212 million, compared 
with $8,060 million in 2021. The increase was mainly driven by the 
combined effect of higher realised prices and contributions from trading 
and optimisation, and gains related to the fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives. This was partly offset by lower volumes and 
higher operating expenses.
 
See "Integrated Gas" on pages 38-43. 
Upstream earnings in 2022 were $16,222 million, compared with 
$9,603 million in 2021. The increase was mainly driven by higher 
realised prices, gains relating to storage and working gas transfer 
effects and impairment reversals. This was partly offset by lower 
volumes, mainly as a result of divestments, and charges relating 
to the EU solidarity contribution and UK Energy Profits Levy.
See "Upstream" on pages 44-51. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value
29 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
29
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Marketing earnings in 2022 were $2,133 million, compared with 
$3,535 million in 2021. The decrease was mainly driven by higher 
operating expenses (including the effects of higher volumes), net losses 
on the sale of assets compared with net gains in 2021, and higher 
impairment charges. These were partly offset by higher margins.
 
See "Marketing" on pages 60-64. 
Chemicals and Products earnings in 2022 were $4,515 million, 
compared with $404 million in 2021. The increase was mainly driven 
by higher Products margins (reflecting higher Refining margins and 
higher contributions from trading and optimisation), and lower 
impairment charges. These were partly offset by lower Chemicals 
margins and higher operating expenses.
 
See "Chemicals and Products" on pages 65-72.
Renewables and Energy Solutions earnings in 2022 were a loss of 
$1,059 million, compared with a loss of $1,514 million in 2021. The 
decrease in the loss was mainly driven by higher contributions from 
trading and optimisation for gas and power. This was partly offset 
by higher net losses related to the fair value accounting of commodity 
derivatives and higher operating expenses.
 
See "Renewables and Energy Solutions" on pages 73-76.
Corporate segment earnings in 2022 were an expense of 
$2,461 million, compared with an expense of $2,606 million in 2021. 
The lower expense was mainly driven by favourable movements in 
net interest expense. This was partly offset by lower tax credits 
and unfavourable currency exchange effects.
 
See "Corporate" on page 77.
Prior year earnings summary
Our earnings summary for the financial year ended December 31, 
2021, compared with the financial year ended December 31, 2020, 
can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts (page 34) and Form 
20-F (page 33) for the year ended December 31, 2021, as filed with 
the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales and the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission, respectively.
Production available for sale
Oil and gas production available for sale in 2022 was 2,864 thousand 
boe per day (boe/d), compared with 3,237 thousand boe/d in
2021. This net reduction was mainly driven by divestments, higher 
maintenance activities, and net field declines, partly offset by new
fields ramp-ups.
 Oil and gas production available for sale [A]
 
Thousand boe/d
2022 2021 2020
Crude oil and natural gas liquids  1,460  1,685  1,752 
Synthetic crude oil  46  54  51 
Natural gas [B]  1,357  1,498  1,583 
Total  2,864  3,237  3,386 
Of which:
Integrated Gas  921  1,004  1,011 
Upstream  1,897  2,178  2,324 
Oil sands (part of Chemical and Products)  46  54  51 
[A] See "Oil and gas information" on pages 56-57.
[B] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf
per barrel. 
Proved reserves
The proved oil and gas reserves of Shell subsidiaries and the 
Shell share of the proved oil and gas reserves of joint ventures and 
associates are summarised in "Oil and gas information" on pages 
52-54 and set out in more detail in "Supplementary information –
oil and gas (unaudited)" on pages 
308-326. 
Before taking production into account, our proved reserves increased 
by 1,304 million boe in 2022. Total oil and gas production was
1,091 million boe. Accordingly, after taking production into account, 
our proved reserves increased by 213 million boe in 2022, to 
9,578 million boe at December 31, 2022.
Cash capital expenditure and other information
Cash capital expenditure was $24,833 million in 2022, compared
with $19,698 million in 2021.
Operating expenses were $39,477 million in 2022, compared 
with $35,964 million in 2021. Underlying operating expenses 
were $39,456 million, compared with $35,309 million in 2021.
Our return on average capital employed (ROACE) increased to 16.7%, 
compared with 8.8% in 2021, mainly driven by higher earnings.
Net debt was $44,837 million at the end of 2022, compared with 
$52,556 million at the end of 2021, mainly reflecting higher free 
cash flow.
Gearing was 18.9% at the end of 2022, compared with 23.1% at the 
end of 2021, mainly driven by net debt reduction and higher income 
which resulted in higher equity.
Significant accounting estimates and judgements
See Note 2 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements"
on pages 
242-252. 
Legal proceedings
See Note 31 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements"
on pages 
303-305.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Group results continued
30 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
30
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Financial framework 
We manage our businesses to deliver strong cash flows, sustain our 
strategy and create profitable growth. Management applies Shell's 
cash to support disciplined capital expenditure and maintain a resilient 
balance sheet; target AA credit metrics through the cycle; deliver 
a progressive dividend to shareholders with growth of around 4% 
annually (subject to Board approval); and target total distributions 
to shareholders of a minimum of 20% and (subject to Board approval 
and prevailing market conditions) potentially more than 30% of our 
cash flow from operating activities.
The Board may choose to return cash to shareholders through a 
combination of dividends and share buybacks. When setting the level 
of shareholder remuneration, the Board looks at a range of factors, 
including the macro environment, the underlying business earnings and 
cash flow of the Group, the current balance sheet, future investment, 
acquisition and divestment plans, and existing commitments.
Liquidity and capital resources
Shell generated cash flow from operations of $68.4 billion, including 
a negative impact from working capital of $5.4 billion, and free cash 
flow of $46.0 billion in 2022, aided by the improving global macro 
environment for oil and gas businesses, and divestments (for more 
information on free cash flow see "Non-GAAP measures 
reconciliations" on pages 362-365). Net debt decreased to $44.8 
billion at December 31, 2022 (December 31, 2021: $52.6 billion). 
Gearing fell to 18.9% at December 31, 2022, compared with 23.1% at 
December 31, 2021, as higher income increased equity and cash flow 
generation reduced net debt. Note 20 to the "Consolidated Financial 
Statements" on pages 279-280 provides information on our debt 
arrangements, including net debt and gearing definitions.
Liquidity
We satisfy our funding and working capital requirements from the cash 
generated from our operations, the issuance of debt and divestments. 
In 2022, access to the international debt capital markets remained 
strong, with our debt principally financed from these markets through 
central debt programmes consisting of: 
▪ a $10 billion global commercial paper (CP) programme, with 
maturities between 183 days and 364 days;
▪ a $10 billion US CP programme, with maturities not exceeding 
397 days;
▪ an unlimited Euro medium-term note (EMTN) programme (also 
referred to as the Multi-Currency Debt Securities Programme); and
▪ an unlimited US universal shelf (US shelf) registration. 
The CP, EMTN and US shelf debt is issued by Shell International 
Finance B.V., the issuance company for Shell, with its debt being 
guaranteed by Shell plc (the Company). 
We also maintain committed credit facilities. The core facilities 
were extended in December 2022. Of the $9.92 billion total facility, 
$1.92 billion matures in 2023, $0.32 billion in 2025 and $7.68 billion 
in 2026. This remained fully undrawn at December 31, 2022. 
These core facilities and internally available liquidity provide back-up 
coverage for our CP programmes. Other than certain borrowing by 
local subsidiaries, we do not have any other committed credit facilities. 
Our total debt decreased by $5.3 billion to $83.8 billion at December 
31, 2022. The total debt excluding leases matures as follows: 8% 
in 2023; 8% in 2024; 11% in 2025; 7% in 2026; and 66% in 2027 
and beyond. The portion of debt maturing in 2023 is expected to 
be repaid from some combination of cash balances, cash generated 
from operations, divestments and the issuance of new debt.
In 2022, we did not issue any bonds under our US shelf registration 
or EMTN programme. $175 million of CP was issued in the second 
quarter, and repaid within the same quarter. CP outstanding was zero 
at the end of 2022. Management believes it has access to sufficient 
debt funding sources (capital markets) and to undrawn committed 
borrowing facilities to meet foreseeable requirements.
While our subsidiaries are subject to restrictions, such as foreign 
withholding taxes on the transfer of funds in the form of cash dividends, 
loans or advances, such restrictions are not expected to have a 
material impact on our ability to meet our cash obligations. 
Market risk and credit risk
We are affected by the global macroeconomic environment, as well as 
financial and commodity market conditions. This exposes us to treasury 
and trading risks, including liquidity risk, credit risk, and market risk 
(interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and commodity price risk). 
See "Risk factors" on page 22 and Note 25 to the "Consolidated 
Financial Statements" on pages 293-299. The size and scope of our 
businesses require a robust financial control framework and effective 
management of our various risk exposures. 
We use various financial instruments for managing exposure to 
commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements. 
Our treasury and trading operations are highly centralised and seek 
to manage credit exposures associated with our substantial cash, 
commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate positions. Our portfolio 
of cash investments is diversified to avoid concentrating risk in any 
one instrument, country or counterparty. The use of external derivative 
instruments is confined to specialist trading and central treasury 
organisations that have appropriate skills, experience, supervision, 
control and reporting systems. Credit risk policies are in place to 
ensure that sales of products are made to customers with appropriate 
creditworthiness, and include credit analysis and monitoring of 
customers against counterparty credit limits. Where appropriate, 
netting arrangements, credit insurance, prepayments and collateral 
are used to manage credit risk.
Pension commitments
We have substantial pension commitments, the funding of which is 
subject to capital market risks (see "Risk factors" on page 23). We 
address key pension risks in a number of ways. Principal among these is 
the Pensions Forum, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, which 
oversees Shell’s input to pension strategy, policy and operation. A risk 
committee supports the forum in reviewing the results of assurance 
processes in respect of pensions risks. In general, local trustees manage 
the funded defined benefit pension plans, with contributions paid 
based on independent actuarial valuations in accordance with local 
regulations. Our total employer contributions were $0.7 billion in 2022 
and are estimated to be $0.8 billion in 2023.
 
See Note 23 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 285-291.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value
31 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
31
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Capitalisation table
 
$ million
December 
31, 2022
December 
31, 2021
Equity attributable to Shell plc shareholders  190,472  171,966 
Current debt  9,001  8,218 
Non-current debt  74,794  80,868 
Total debt [A]  83,795  89,086 
Total capitalisation  274,267  261,052 
[A] Of total debt of $83.8 billion (2021: $89.1 billion), $55.2 billion (2021: $61.5 billion) was 
unsecured and $28.6 billion (2021: $27.6 billion) was secured. $51.0 billion was issued 
by Shell International Finance B.V., a 100%-owned subsidiary of Shell plc with its debt 
guaranteed by Shell plc (December 31, 2021: $54.7 billion). See Note 20 to the 
"Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 279-280 for further disclosure on debt.
Guarantees and other off-balance sheet arrangements
There were no guarantees or other off-balance sheet arrangements 
at December 31, 2022, or December 31, 2021, that were reasonably 
likely to have a material effect on Shell. 
Statement of cash flows
Cash flow from operating activities in 2022 was an inflow of 
$68.4 billion, compared with $45.1 billion in 2021, mainly due 
to higher earnings, partly offset by unfavourable working capital 
movements of $5.4 billion (compared with unfavourable working 
capital movements of $10.4 billion in 2021). The increase in cash 
flow from operating activities in 2021, compared with $34.1 billion 
in 2020, was mainly due to higher earnings, partly offset by 
unfavourable working capital movements.
Cash flow from investing activities in 2022 was an outflow of 
$22.4 billion, compared with an outflow of $4.8 billion in 2021. 
The increased cash outflow was mainly due to lower proceeds from 
sale of property, plant and equipment in 2022. The decreased cash 
outflow in 2021 compared with $13.3 billion in 2020 was mainly due 
to higher proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment in 
2021, including the divestment of our Permian assets in the USA.
Cash flow from financing activities in 2022 was an outflow of 
$42.0 billion, compared with outflows of $34.7 billion in 2021 
and $7.2 billion in 2020, mainly due to higher repurchases of 
shares of $18.4 billion (2021: $2.9 billion; 2020: $1.7 billion) 
and net repayment of debt of $7.9 billion (2021: $19.7 billion 
net repayment; 2020: $5.6 billion net issuance). 
Cash and cash equivalents were $40.2 billion at December 31, 2022 
(December 31, 2021: $37.0 billion; December 31, 2020: $31.8 billion).
 
See Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on page 241.
Cash flow from operating activities
The most significant factors affecting our cash flow from operating 
activities are earnings, which are mainly impacted by: realised prices 
for crude oil, natural gas and LNG; production levels of crude oil, 
natural gas and LNG; chemicals, refining and marketing margins; 
and movements in working capita and derivative financial instruments. 
The impact on earnings from changes in market prices depends 
on: the extent to which contractual arrangements are tied to market 
prices; the dynamics of production-sharing contracts; the existence of 
agreements with governments or state-owned oil and gas companies 
that have limited sensitivity to crude oil and natural gas prices; tax 
impacts; and the extent to which changes in commodity prices flow 
through into operating expenses. Changes in benchmark prices of 
crude oil and natural gas in any particular period provide only a broad 
indicator of changes in our Integrated Gas and Upstream earnings in 
that period. Changes in any one of a range of factors, derived from 
either within the industry or the broader economic environment, can 
influence refining and marketing margins. The precise impact of any 
such changes depends on how the oil markets respond to them. The 
market response is affected by factors such as: whether the change 
affects all crude oil types or only a specific grade; regional and global 
crude oil and refined products inventories; and the collective speed 
of response of refiners and product marketers in adjusting their 
operations. As a result, margins fluctuate from region to region 
and from period to period.
Divestment and cash capital expenditure
The levels of divestment proceeds and cash capital expenditure in 
2022 and 2021 reflect our discipline and focus on the Powering 
Progress strategy. Divestment proceeds for 2022 were $2.1 billion, 
compared with $15.1 billion in 2021, which included the divestment 
of the Permian assets.
Cash capital expenditure is used to monitor investing activities 
on a cash basis, excluding items such as lease additions which 
do not necessarily result in cash outflows in the period.
 Cash capital expenditure
 
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Integrated Gas  4,265  3,502  3,566 
Upstream  8,143  6,168  7,099 
Marketing  4,831  2,273  1,774 
Chemicals and Products  3,838  5,175  4,198 
Renewables and Energy Solutions  3,469  2,359  928 
Corporate  287  221  262 
Total cash capital expenditure  24,833  19,698  17,827 
 See non-GAAP measures reconciliations on pages 362-365.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Financial framework continued
32 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
32
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Contractual obligations
The table below summarises our principal contractual obligations at December 31, 2022, by expected settlement period. The amounts presented 
have not been offset by any committed third-party revenue in relation to these obligations.
 Contractual obligations
 
$ billion
Less than 1 
year
Between
1 and 3 years
Between
3 and 5 years
5 years
and later Total
Debt [A]  4.6  10.6  6.5  35.7  57.4 
Leases 5.9  9.1  6.5  17.9  39.4 
Purchase obligations [B]  34.1  30.9  18.4  63.8  147.2 
Other long-term contractual liabilities [C]  0.2  0.6  0.1  0.6  1.5 
Total  44.8  51.2  31.5  118.0  245.5 
[A] See Note 20 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 279-280. Debt contractual obligations exclude interest, which is estimated to be $1.7 billion payable in less than one year, 
$3.0 billion between one and three years, $2.5 billion between three and five years, and $14.8 billion in five years and later. For this purpose, we assume that interest rates with respect to 
variable interest rate debt remain constant at the rates in effect at December 31, 2022, and that there is no change in the aggregate principal amount of debt other than repayment at 
scheduled maturity as reflected in the table. Lease contractual obligations include interest.
[B] Purchase obligations disclosed in the above table exclude commodity purchase obligations that are not fixed or determinable and are principally intended to be resold in a short period of 
time through sale agreements with third parties. Examples include long-term non-cancellable LNG and natural gas purchase commitments and commitments to purchase refined products or 
crude oil at market prices. Inclusion of such commitments would not be meaningful in measuring liquidity and cash flow, as the cash outflows generated by these purchases will generally be 
offset in the same periods by cash received from the related sales transactions.
[C] Includes obligations included in "Trade and other payables" and provisions related to onerous contracts included in "Decommissioning and other provisions" in "Non-current liabilities" in the 
"Consolidated Balance Sheet" that are contractually fixed as to timing and amount. In addition to these amounts, Shell has certain obligations that are not contractually fixed as to timing and 
amount, including contributions to defined benefit pension plans (see Note 23 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 285-291) and obligations associated with 
decommissioning and restoration (see Note 24 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 292-293). 
Dividends
Subject to Board approval, Shell aims to grow the dividend per share 
by around 4% every year. In total, Shell targets the distribution of a 
minimum of 20% and, subject to Board approval and prevailing market 
conditions, potentially more than 30% of our cash flow from operations 
to shareholders. Shell may choose to return cash to shareholders 
through a combination of dividends and share buybacks.
When setting the level of shareholder distributions, the Board looks at 
a range of factors, including the macro environment, the earnings and 
cash flows of the Group, the current balance sheet, future investment, 
acquisition and divestment plans and existing commitments. We 
returned $7.4 billion to our shareholders through dividends in 2022. 
The fourth quarter 2022 dividend of $0.2875 per share will be paid
on March 27, 2023, to shareholders on the register at February 17, 
2023, and represents an increase of 15% compared with the third 
quarter of 2022.
 
See Note 29 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 303.
Purchases of securities
On February 3, 2022, share buybacks of $8.5 billion for the first
half of 2022 were announced, comprising two programmes which 
were completed in May 2022 and July 2022. These included the 
remaining $5.5 billion of the Permian divestment proceeds that had 
been allocated for share buybacks. On July 28, 2022, and October 
27, 2022, the Company announced buybacks of $6 billion and
$4 billion which were completed in October 2022 and January
2023 respectively, leading to a total of $18.4 billion across 2022.
The buybacks were conducted on both London market exchanges
and Amsterdam exchanges.
Between January 1, 2022, and January 28, 2022, 32 million B shares 
were purchased and cancelled. Over the remainder of 2022, 650 
million ordinary shares were purchased and cancelled. Overall,
a total nominal share value of €48 million ($57 million), 9.8% of the 
Company's total issued share capital at December 31, 2022, was 
purchased and cancelled during 2022 for a total cost of $18.4 billion, 
including expenses, at an average price of $26.99 per share.
The buybacks completed in the first half of 2022 were in accordance 
with the authorities granted by shareholders at the 2021 Annual 
General Meeting (AGM). The buybacks completed in the second 
half of 2022 were in accordance with the authorities granted by 
shareholders at the 2022 AGM. At the 2022 AGM, authority was 
granted for the Company to repurchase up to a maximum of 10% of its 
issued ordinary shares, excluding treasury shares, (758 million ordinary 
shares), both on and off market, allowing purchases on Amsterdam as 
well as London exchanges. As at December 31, 2022, 416 million 
ordinary shares could still be repurchased under the current AGM 
authorities. The purpose of the share repurchases in 2022 was to 
reduce the issued share capital of the Company.
New resolutions will be proposed at the 2023 AGM to renew the 
authority for the Company to purchase its own share capital, up to 
specified limits, for a further year. These proposals will be described 
in more detail in the 2023 Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Shares are also purchased by the employee share ownership 
trusts and trust-like entities (see Note 27 to the "Consolidated Financial 
Statements" on page 300) to meet delivery commitments under 
employee share plans. All share purchases are made in
open-market transactions. 
The table on the next page provides information on purchases of shares 
in 2022 and January 2023 by the Company and affiliated purchasers. 
Purchases in euros and sterling are converted into dollars using the 
exchange rate on each transaction date.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Financial framework continued
33 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
33
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Purchases of equity securities by issuer and affiliated purchasers in 2022 [A]
 
Euro Shares GBP Shares ADSs [B]
Purchase period
Number
purchased
for employee
share plans
Number
purchased
for cancellation 
[C]
Weighted
average
price ($)[D]
Number
purchased
for employee
share plans
Number 
purchased for 
cancellation 
[C]
Weighted
average
price ($)[D]
Number
purchased
for employee
share plans
Weighted
average
price ($)[D]
January [E]  —  —  —  —  31,678,192 24.43  1,106,045 46.31
February  —  —  —  —  46,523,793 26.92  —  — 
March  —  —  —  —  56,830,503 26.32  —  — 
April  —  —  —  —  41,502,892 27.88  —  — 
May  —  —  —  —  74,210,419 29.00  —  — 
June  —  —  —  —  80,226,377 27.43  —  — 
July  —  2,100,000 26.18  —  11,359,217 26.07  —  — 
August  —  37,458,590 26.56  —  38,547,931 26.55  —  — 
September  —  46,030,334 25.59  —  62,467,606 25.70  —  — 
October  —  10,046,901  26.25  —  36,420,460  26.12 
November  —  27,532,944  27.91  —  21,324,945  27.91 
December  13,784,280  36,324,940  28.42  911,200  21,384,292  28.29  2,398,670  55.63 
Total 2022  13,784,280  159,493,709  27.03  911,200  522,476,627  26.29  3,504,715  52.69 
January  —  3,902,011  28.34  —  24,834,916  28.82  808,490  55.87 
Total 2023  —  3,902,011  28.34  —  24,834,916  28.82  808,490  55.87 
[A] Reported as at transaction date.
[B] American Depositary Shares. 
[C] Under the share buyback programme. 
[D] Includes stamp duty and brokers' commission.
[E] On January 29, 2022, one line of shares was established through assimilation of each A share and each B share into one ordinary share of the Company. 
Financial information relating to the Royal Dutch Shell 
Dividend Access Trust
The results of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust (the Trust) 
are included in the consolidated results of operations and financial 
position of Shell. See "Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust 
Financial Statements" on pages 352-356. Certain condensed
financial information in respect of the Trust is given below. 
The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited and BG Group 
Limited have each issued a dividend access share to Computershare 
Trustees (Jersey) Limited (the Trustee). For the years 2022, 2021 and 
2020, the Trust recorded income before tax of £nil, £2.2 billion, and 
£2.8 billion respectively. In each period, this reflected the amount 
of dividends payable on the dividend access shares. Dividends 
are also classified as unclaimed where amounts have not cleared 
recipient bank accounts.
At December 31, 2022, the Trust had total equity of £nil (December 31, 
2021: £nil; December 31, 2020: £nil), reflecting assets of £6 million 
(December 31, 2021: £7 million; December 31, 2020: £7 million) and 
unclaimed dividends of £6 million (December 31, 2021: £7 million; 
December 31, 2020: £7 million). The Trust only records a liability for 
an unclaimed dividend to the extent that dividend cheque payments 
have not been presented within 12 months, have expired or have 
been returned unpresented. 
On January 29, 2022, one line of shares was established through 
assimilation of each A share and each B share into one ordinary share 
of the Company. This assimilation had no impact on voting rights or 
dividend entitlements. Dutch withholding tax, applied previously on 
dividends on A shares, no longer applies on dividends paid on the 
ordinary shares following the assimilation.
In relation to the assimilation of the Company's A and B shares, the 
Trust will continue in existence for the foreseeable future to facilitate 
the payment of unclaimed dividend liabilities for shareholders of the 
former B shares until these are either claimed or forfeited in line with 
the terms outlined.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Financial framework continued
34 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
34
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Market overview
In 2022, the energy price shock and rising food prices led to a cost-of-
living crisis and lower economic growth, pushing up inflation to levels 
not seen for many decades. 
Prices were already creeping up as a result of the economic rebound 
from the pandemic, its lockdowns and related supply chain constraints. 
But inflation soared globally after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, which 
triggered the war that continues today. 
Shell maintains a large business portfolio across an integrated value 
chain and is exposed to fluctuating prices of crude oil, natural gas, 
oil products, chemicals and power (see "Risk factors" on page 15). 
This diversified portfolio provides resilience when prices are volatile. 
Our annual planning cycle and periodic portfolio reviews aim to 
ensure that our levels of capital investment and operating expenses 
are appropriate in the context of a volatile price environment. 
We test the resilience of our projects and other opportunities against 
a range of prices for crude oil, natural gas, oil products, chemicals 
and power. We also aim to maintain a strong balance sheet to 
provide resilience against weak market prices.
Global economic growth
Higher energy and food prices have caused real wages to fall in 
many countries, slashing purchasing power. This is hurting consumers. 
In addition, central banks around the world are increasing interest rates 
to curb inflation and anchor inflation expectations in their economies. 
Tighter monetary policy and higher interest rates, weak real household 
income growth and declining confidence have resulted in lower 
economic growth during 2022. 
For 2023, a further growth slowdown for the world economy is 
projected, as well as high, but declining, inflation in many countries. 
In the International Monetary Fund's latest global economic prospects 
report published in January 2023, global growth is forecast to 
decelerate from 6.2% in 2021 and 3.4% in 2022 to 2.9% in 2023. 
Asia is expected to be the main engine of growth in 2023 and 2024,
whereas Europe, North America and South America are expected
to see very low growth. 
Risks to the economic outlook remain significant, including new 
uncertainties about natural gas supplies to Europe, the impact of
the real estate and COVID-19 crises in China, and a resurgence of 
COVID-19 health scares around the world. Central banks must chart
a difficult path as they face mixed economic signals, such as slowing 
economic growth with still-tight labour markets and strong pressure for 
wage growth. In this environment, an insufficient increase in interest 
rates may prove a mistake. If rates are not adequately raised, inflation 
could become entrenched, prompting higher interest rates in the future 
at a significant cost to the economy. On the other hand, increasing 
interest rates by too much may risk sending many economies into
debt distress and prolonged recession.
Global prices, demand and supply
The following table provides an overview of the main crude oil and 
natural gas price markers to which we are exposed:
 Oil and gas average industry prices [A]
 
2022 2021 2020
Brent ($/b)  101  71  42 
West Texas Intermediate ($/b)  95  68  39 
Henry Hub ($/MMBtu)  6.4  4.0  2.0 
EU TTF ($/MMBtu)  40  16  3 
Japan Customs-cleared Crude ($/b) - 3 months  98  60  51 
[A] Yearly average prices are based on monthly average spot prices. The 2022 average price 
for Japan Customs-cleared Crude is based on available market information up to the end of 
the period.
Crude oil and oil products 
The global benchmark oil price Brent averaged $101 per barrel (/b) in 
2022, the highest annual average price since 2013. This represents an 
increase of more than 40% increase from the annual average of $71/b 
recorded in 2021. High prices were mostly realised in the first half of 
the year, with demand recovering as economies reopened and supply 
constrained by the capacity of major oil producers. Russia's invasion 
of Ukraine triggered concerns about supply availability, sending Brent 
to a high of $133/b on March 8, 2022. Prices stayed at an elevated 
level until the middle of the year, before falling as recession concerns 
weighed on the market. Brent averaged $80/b in December, the same 
price as it was in the fourth quarter of 2021. West Texas Intermediate 
(WTI) traded at a sharper discount of around $6/b to Brent in 2022, 
compared with a discount of about $3/b in 2021. This is because of 
rising demand for Brent as a replacement for Urals, the most common 
grade of Russian crude exports. 
In 2022, global oil product demand rose by more than 2 mb/d to 
nearly 100 mb/d, approaching the pre-COVID-19 level of 100.5 mb/d 
in 2019. Growth largely came from jet fuel, supported by the rebound 
in air travel after the pandemic. Growth in other product segments 
continued in 2022, albeit at a slower pace. Global diesel/gas oil 
growth eased from 1.5 mb/d in 2021 to 0.66 mb/d in 2022 based 
on IEA estimates, reflecting weakening economic activities. Naphtha, 
after a strong year of growth in 2021, declined by 0.13 mb/d due 
to a weak petrochemical sector. Regionally, growth has largely 
come from non-OECD markets, particularly the Middle East and 
India. Chinese demand dropped by about 0.4 mb/d as lockdowns 
in the country affected demand. Among OECD markets, European 
growth was particularly weak. While high gas prices resulted in a 
switch from gas to oil, this was largely offset by a weak petrochemical 
sector which struggled with high energy costs. 
Global oil production increased to 100 million b/d in 2022, up by
4.7 mb/d from 2021. Growth was largely led by the ramp-up of Saudi 
Arabian and US shale oil. Saudi Arabia delivered an additional 1.4 
mb/d compared with 2021, about half of the OPEC supply growth. 
Outside OPEC, the USA added 1.2 mb/d, providing about 60% of the 
non-OPEC growth. During the third quarter, there were concerns about 
whether OPEC would raise production in step with demand recovery 
because a number of member countries were producing below quota. 
But the trend started shifting from the fourth quarter, with OPEC in 
November reintroducing production cuts of 2 mb/d, in view of the 
potential surplus should economic conditions worsen. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value
35 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
35
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has strong ramifications for global crude 
and oil product supply. Before the invasion, Russian production was 
expected to surge by more than 0.8 mb/d in 2022, according to the 
IEA. But actual production growth was about 0.2 mb/d due to OECD 
market sanctioning. Global crude/product trade flow also shifted as 
Russian crude/products were redirected to non-OECD markets. 
The outlook for 2023 demand is highly uncertain. One key uncertainty 
is the recession risk in OECD economies, particularly Europe. China's 
lifting of COVID-19 restrictions to focus on economic growth could 
provide some support to global oil demand. The main uncertainty on 
the supply side is the supply from Russia after the embargo on Russian 
crude and oil products took effect. The EU embargo and G7 price 
caps on Russian crude oil took effect in early December 2022. Russian 
oil product embargoes and price caps followed in February 2023. 
These measures could lead to a further reduction in Russia's oil supply.
Natural gas
Global demand for natural gas in 2022 is estimated to have declined 
by 1.6% compared with 2021. This was a result of high, volatile prices 
and shorter supply, particularly in Europe and emerging Asian 
countries, which led to reduced industrial, commercial and residential 
consumption. The year-on-year downturn came after gas demand 
rebounded in 2021 from the historically low levels during the pandemic. 
Europe’s gas market experienced an unprecedented supply shock from 
the sharp reduction in Russian pipeline gas imports. Already-elevated 
spot gas prices in Europe rose further under the threat of Russian supply 
curtailments and the uncertainty about the LNG market’s ability to 
make up the difference. This triggered demand curtailment in Europe's 
industrial sector. It also caused a slowdown in LNG import purchases in 
China amid economic weakness and COVID-19 lockdowns. Emerging 
economies, such as Pakistan and Bangladesh, struggled with the 
affordability of spot LNG.
European gas prices were turbulent in 2022 as almost all pipeline 
flows from Russia came to a halt. Exports through Gazprom’s pipelines 
fell from a 2022 peak of just over 300 million cubic metres per day 
(mcm/d) to about 65 mcm/d in November. On an annual basis, 
Europe’s imports of Russian pipeline gas almost halved. The European 
benchmark price Title Transfer Facility (TTF) was volatile, breaching 
$96/MMBtu at its peak. There were also large disconnections in 
regional European gas hub prices caused by the reconfiguration of 
supply flows and regasification capacity reaching maximum utilisation 
rates. This particularly affected the UK’s National Balancing Point 
(NBP) and TTF prices, as well as the price of delivered LNG.
The pricing environment was a catalyst for major demand destruction. 
The residential and commercial consumer sector shed more than 15% 
of demand year-on-year, assisted by mild temperatures. The industrial 
sector is estimated to have lost more demand year-on-year than any 
period for over a decade. But TTF prices experienced a sharp decline 
at the end of the third quarter after Russian gas pipeline cuts 
materialised and gas inventories were built beyond government-
mandated levels ahead of time. Europe remained the highest-priced 
global gas market for 2022 and attracted substantial volumes away 
from other markets, especially in Asia. Higher LNG exports into Europe, 
coupled with demand curtailment, made up for the lack of Russian 
pipeline imports, allowing for a comfortable storage situation by 
the start of the northern hemisphere winter. European LNG imports 
increased by about 45 million tonnes with north-west Europe 
accounting for more than 30 million tonnes of this growth. A migration 
of floating storage and regasification units (FSRUs) to Europe reduced 
bottlenecks and increased import capacity, specifically to north-west 
Europe. The commissioning of the Eemshaven FSRU in the Netherlands 
in September 2022, and the commissioning of several FSRUs for 
Germany have set Europe up to be a major LNG importer for 
years to come. 
Asian spot LNG prices, as reflected by the Japan Korea Marker (JKM), 
traded at a significant discount to European prices for most of 2022, 
driven largely by lower LNG imports into China. By the end of the year, 
China had imported about 15 million tonnes less LNG year-on-year, 
ceding the title of the world's biggest LNG importer back to Japan. 
South Korea and Japan continued to import LNG despite the high spot 
prices because of JKM buyers’ high concentration of long-term LNG 
contract volume. Crude-oil-linked contracts were cheaper than JKM 
prices by an average of 50% in 2022. This was evidenced by the 
Japan Landed Cost (JLC), which accounts for imported LNG long-term 
contract and spot prices averaging about $17/MMBtu versus an 
average of around $33/MMBtu for the spot price of JKM. 
Henry Hub gas benchmark prices in North America were volatile 
throughout the year, ranging from below $4/MMbtu to nearly $10/
MMbtu. Henry Hub cash prices averaged $6.39/MMBtu in 2022, 
reaching a peak of $9.84/MMBtu in August. The rise in the first half 
of the year was caused by a structurally tighter market and spill-over 
effects from the higher prices for LNG exports. The decline towards 
the end of the year was a result of strong production and comfortable 
storage expectations for the northern hemisphere winter. US LNG 
export plants consumed an average of 11.81 bcf (billion cubic feet) per 
day throughout the year, accounting for 12% of US overall production 
of around 97 bcf per day. This is a 547% increase from five years ago 
and a 203% increase from the previous five-year average. Strong 
power demand for gas in the USA and lagging upstream production 
supported the rise.
Power
Europe: European power prices were turbulent in 2022. In Germany, 
for example, the average power price in 2022 was $247/MWh, 
an unprecedented seven times higher than the average price of
$37/MWh in the period from 2015 to 2019. Prices increased in 
the first quarter of the year, peaking in August with spot prices of 
up to $916/MWh. European power prices are strongly influenced 
by the power plants dependent on natural gas. Widespread 
unplanned outages of French nuclear power plants and low 
hydropower availability also pushed up power prices. The high 
European power prices have triggered a range of regulatory actions, 
including revenue caps for inframarginal power generators (generators 
which do not set marginal prices); national demand reduction goals; 
and a consultation for market reforms by the European Commission. 
United States: US power prices were much higher across all major 
markets in 2022 compared with 2021. One of the key drivers of higher 
power prices and volatility in 2022 was gas prices. Henry Hub gas 
benchmark prices in North America were volatile throughout the year, 
ranging from below $4/MMbtu to nearly $10/MMbtu. Prices in the 
second half of the year traded back down to below $4.00/MMBtu as 
natural gas production steadily increased and the ability to increase 
storage injections prior to winter picked up. Power prices were also 
driven higher by weather events throughout the year and across the 
country. For the eastern part of the USA, cold weather in January led 
ISO-NE (New England) prices to average around $150/MWh, and a 
late December cold front led to significantly higher prices in PJM and 
MISO (Midcontinent) markets. For the ERCOT (Texas) market, a hot 
July in Texas led to record level demand and North Hub settled at 
$147/MWh. A heatwave in the western part of the USA in September 
sent Mid-C (Midcontinent) ISO and CAISO (California) prices to highs 
of $152/MWh and $118/MWh respectively, and a cold December 
resulted in even higher prices in Mid-C ($263/MWh) and CAISO 
($254/MWh). 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Market overview continued
36 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
36
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Australia: In 2022, the (East) Australia power market was volatile 
with spot prices averaging $191/MWh and $151/MWh in the 
second and third quarter respectively. This was because of unseasonal 
weather, unplanned outages of coal-fired power plants, and gas and 
hydropower supply constraints. High international coal and spot 
LNG prices pushed up domestic gas and coal prices. The gas market 
spiked to the $21–28 per gigajoule (GJ) range in the second and 
third quarters after having started the year at $7/GJ (well below 
international LNG prices). The spike was caused by a significant 
demand for uncontracted and unforecasted gas with little or no notice. 
This demand came primarily from the aforementioned power market 
disruptions, but also arose from the early onset of the Australian winter 
and a heavy reliance on spot markets by some industrial and power 
generation end-users. Prices became more moderate as Australia 
moved out of winter, but remained volatile as the government 
implemented gas and coal price caps and controls at the 
wholesale level for 2023 and beyond. 
Crude oil and natural gas price assumptions
Our ability to deliver competitive returns and pursue commercial 
opportunities depends on the accuracy of our price assumptions 
(see "Risk factors" on page 15). We use a rigorous assessment of short-, 
medium- and long-term market uncertainties to determine what ranges 
of future crude oil and natural gas prices to use in project and portfolio 
evaluations. Market uncertainties include, for example, future economic 
conditions, geopolitics, actions by major resource holders, production 
costs, technological progress and the balance of supply and demand.
 
See also Note 12 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 271-274.
Refining margins
 Global indicative refining margin [A]
 
$/bbl
2022 2021 2020
Indicative refining margin  18.03  4.79  2.12 
[A] The indicative margin is an approximation of Shell’s global gross refining unit margin, 
calculated using price markers from third parties’ databases. It is based on a simplified 
crude and product yield profile at a nominal level of refining performance. The actual 
margins realised by Shell may vary due to factors including specific local market effects, 
refinery maintenance, crude diet optimisation as the crudes in the IRM are indicative 
benchmark crudes, operating decisions and product demand. Gross refining unit margin is 
defined as the hydrocarbon margin net of purchased/sold utilities, additives and relevant 
freight costs, divided by crude and feedstock intake in barrels. It is only applicable to the 
impact of market pricing on refining business performance, excluding trading margin. Prior 
period comparatives are calculated on the same basis as the current year.
In 2022, gross refining margins improved in comparison with 2021, 
especially during the first half of the year. Economic recovery and 
disruption caused by the Russian war in Ukraine led to very strong 
refining margins, especially during the second quarter. With demand 
falling in sync with the economic slowdown, refining margins fell 
towards the end of the year. Weak chemical feedstocks and gasoline 
demand was partially offset by strong middle distillate demand. Middle 
distillate demand is supported by continued aviation demand recovery 
and disruptions to Russian product flows to Europe. 
Construction of new capacity continued during the year, especially
in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. However, several projects were 
delayed due to supply chain issues and inflationary cost pressures. 
For 2023 and beyond, refining margins are expected to decline as 
refinery capacity increases and demand growth slows. This would result 
from weaker economic growth, high energy prices and the tightening of 
monetary policy by central banks.
Petrochemical margins
 Global indicative chemical margin [A]
 
$/tonne
2022 2021 2020
Indicative chemical margin  48.04  216.44  184.55 
[A] The Indicative Chemical Margin (ICM) is an approximation of Shell’s global chemical 
margin performance trend (including equity-accounted associates), calculated using price 
markers from third parties’ databases. It is based on a simplified feedstock and product 
yield profile at a nominal level of plant performance. The actual margins realised by 
Shell may vary due to factors including specific local market effects, chemicals plants 
maintenance, optimisation, operating decisions and product demand. Chemical unit 
margin is defined as the hydrocarbon margin net of purchased/sold utilities, additives and 
relevant freight costs, divided by a nominal denominator expressed in metric tons. It is only 
applicable to the impact of market pricing on Chemical business performance.Prior period 
comparatives are calculated on the same basis as the current year.
Chemical cracker margins came under pressure in 2022. The Russian 
war in Ukraine caused volatile energy prices, especially in Europe 
and Asia, leading to lower cracker margins. This has also impacted 
derivative trade and demand. Macroeconomic factors, including 
inflation and lower economic growth, further contributed to weaker 
global demand and lockdown restrictions in China resulted in further 
demand destruction in Asia. New capacity growth primarily in Asia 
and the USA led to global oversupply and lower margins. Producers 
continue to match demand through lower cracker utilisation. 
The outlook for petrochemical margins in 2023 and beyond depends 
on feedstock costs and the balance of supply and demand. Demand 
for petrochemicals is expected to be affected by energy costs, 
macroeconomic factors, and any further COVID-19 impacts. A recovery 
in demand is needed to absorb the excess capacity. The supply of 
petrochemicals will depend on the net capacity effect of new facilities 
and plant closures with utilisation balancing the system. Product prices 
will reflect the prices of raw materials which are closely linked to crude 
oil and natural gas prices. 
The statements in this "Market overview" section, including those 
related to our price forecasts, are forward-looking statements 
based on management’s current expectations and certain material 
assumptions and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that 
could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially 
from those expressed or implied herein.
 
See "About this Report" on page iii and "Risk factors" on page 15.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Market overview continued
37 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
37
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Integrated Gas
Integrated Gas (IG) includes liquefied natural gas 
(LNG), conversion of natural gas into gas-to-liquids 
(GTL) fuels and other products. It includes natural 
gas and liquids exploration and extraction, and 
the operation of the upstream and midstream 
infrastructure necessary to deliver these to market. 
IG also includes the marketing, trading and 
optimisation of LNG, including LNG as a fuel 
for
 heavy-duty vehicles.
Segment earnings ($ billion)
22.2 2021: 8.1
Adjusted Earnings ($ billion)
16.1 2021: 9.0
Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion)
27.7 2021: 13.2
Production (thousand boe/d)
921 2021: 1,004
LNG liquefaction volumes (million tonnes)
30 2021: 31
LNG sales volumes (million tonnes)
66 2021: 64
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value
38 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
38
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Key statistics [A]
 
$ million, except where indicated
2022 2021 2020
Segment earnings/(loss)  22,212  8,060  (7,230) 
Including:
Revenue (including inter-segment sales)  73,163  37,994  25,222 
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates  1,219  1,933  612 
Interest and other income  (714)  1,596  212 
Operating expenses [B] 5,238 4,526 5,100
Underlying operating expenses [B] 4,884 4,295 4,318
Exploration  240  122  616 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  2,211  5,908  19,314 
Taxation charge/(credit)  5,899  2,648  (2,794) 
Identified Items [B] 6,075 (988) (11,443)
Adjusted Earnings [B] 16,137 9,048 4,213
Adjusted EBITDA [B] 26,569 16,754 11,908
Capital expenditure 3,432 3,306 3,491
Cash capital expenditure [B] 4,265 3,502 3,566
Oil and gas production available for sale (thousand boe/d) 921 1,004 1,011
LNG liquefaction volumes (million tonnes) 29.7 31.0 33.2
LNG sales volumes (million tonnes) 66.0 64.2 71.9
[A] With effect from January 1, 2022, our reporting segments are Integrated Gas, Upstream, Marketing, Chemicals and Products, Renewables and Energy Solutions and Corporate. 
Comparative information has been revised. 
[B] See "Non-GAAP measures reconciliations" on pages 362-365.
Business conditions
For the business conditions relevant to Integrated Gas,
see "Market overview" on pages 35-37.
Production available for sale 
In 2022, our production was 336 million barrels of oil equivalent (boe) 
or 921 thousand boe per day (boe/d), compared with 366 million boe, 
or 1,004 thousand boe/d in 2021. Natural gas production was 86% 
of total production in 2022 and 83% of total production in 2021. 
In 2022, natural gas production decreased by 5% compared with 
2021. This was mainly because of the derecognition of Sakhalin-related 
volumes and production-sharing contract effects, partly offset by new 
field ramp-up in Trinidad and Tobago. Liquids production decreased 
by 25%, driven mainly by derecognition of Sakhalin-related volumes. 
LNG liquefaction volumes
LNG liquefaction volumes were 29.7 million tonnes in 2022, compared 
with 31.0 million tonnes in 2021. The decrease was mainly a result of 
the derecognition of Sakhalin-related volumes, and lower feedgas 
supply, partly offset by lower maintenance.
LNG sales volumes were 66.0 million tonnes in 2022 compared 
with 64.2 million tonnes in 2021. This increase was mainly a 
result of higher purchases from third parties and trading and 
optimisation opportunities.
Through our trading organisation, we market and sell a portion of 
our share of equity production of LNG together with third-party LNG 
through our hubs in the UK, UAE and Singapore. Shell has term sales 
contracts for the majority of our LNG liquefaction and term purchase 
contracts. We are able to optimise the income we generate from our 
LNG cargoes through our shipping network, regasification terminals 
and ability to purchase and deliver LNG spot cargoes from third 
parties. For example, if one customer does not need a scheduled 
cargo, we can deliver it to another customer who does need it. 
Similarly, if a customer needs an additional cargo not available from 
our production facilities, we contract with third parties to deliver the 
additional cargo. We conduct paper trades, primarily to manage 
commodity price risk related to sales and purchase contracts. 
We also sell LNG for trucks in China, Singapore and Europe.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Integrated Gas continued
39 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
39
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Integrated gas data table
 LNG liquefaction volumes
 
Million tonnes
2022 2021 2020
Australia  13.2  13.1  11.8 
Brunei  1.2  1.4  1.6 
Egypt  0.5  0.3  0.2 
Nigeria  3.6  4.3  5.3 
Oman  2.8  2.5  2.5 
Peru  0.8  0.6  0.9 
Qatar  2.4  2.4  2.4 
Russia  0.9  2.8  3.1 
Trinidad and Tobago  4.3  3.6  5.4 
Other  —  —  0.2 
Total  29.7  31.0  33.2 
Earnings 2022-2021
Segment earnings in 2022 were $22,212 million, compared with 
$8,060 million in 2021. The increase was mainly driven by the 
combined effect of higher realised prices and contributions from trading 
and optimisation, and gains related to the fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives. This was partly offset by lower volumes and 
higher operating expenses. 
Full year segment earnings included identified items of $6,075 million 
which comprised gains of $6,273 million due to the fair value 
accounting of commodity derivatives and net impairment reversals
of $779 million, partly offset by other impacts of $608 million, which 
mainly comprised loan write-downs, and charges of $387 million due 
to provisions for onerous contracts. The full year 2021 Identified Items 
were a loss of $988 million and included losses of $1,423 million due 
to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives and impairment 
charges of $395 million, partly offset by gains of $1,097 million 
related to the sale of assets.
Earnings 2021-2020
Segment earnings in 2021 were $8,060 million, compared with a loss 
of $7,230 million in 2020. The increase was mainly driven by higher 
realised prices for oil, LNG and gas, favourable tax movements and 
higher volumes.
Full year 2021 segment earnings included Identified Items of $988 
million loss which comprised losses of $1,423 million due to the fair 
value accounting of commodity derivatives and impairment charges 
of $395 million, partly offset by gains of $1,097 million related to the 
sale of assets. Full year 2020 Identified Items were $11,443 million 
loss, which included impairment charges of $10,152 million mainly 
reflecting revisions to mid- and long-term price outlook assumptions 
and primarily related to the Queensland Curtis LNG and Prelude 
floating liquefied natural gas (FLNG) operations in Australia and 
unconventional assets in North America. It also comprised a net 
charge of $880 million because of the fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives and a charge of $607 million related 
to onerous contract provisions.
Cash capital expenditure 
Cash capital expenditure in 2022 was $4,265 million, compared with 
$3,502 million in 2021. The increase was mainly due to investment in 
the North Field East expansion project in Qatar. Our cash capital 
expenditure is expected to be around $5 billion in 2023.
Portfolio and business development 
Key portfolio events included the following: 
▪ Shell announced in the first quarter 2022 its intent to withdraw from 
its ventures in Russia with Gazprom and related entities, and to end 
its involvement in the Nord Stream 2 pipeline project. See Note 6
on pages 262-264 for the actions we have taken since these 
announcements and for the impact on the consolidated financial 
statements.
▪ In March 2022, we produced first gas from Block 22 and 
NCMA-4 in the North Coast Marine Area in Trinidad and Tobago.
▪ In May 2022, Shell Australia Pty Ltd and its joint-venture partner, 
SGH Energy, took a final investment decision to approve the 
development of the Crux natural gas field, off the coast of Western 
Australia, which will be processed through the Prelude FLNG facility. 
▪ In July 2022, QatarEnergy selected us to participate in the North 
Field East (NFE) expansion project in Qatar. In December 2022 
QatarEnergy and Shell closed the transaction resulting in Shell 
purchasing 25% of the shareholding in a joint venture (JV) which 
owns a 25% interest in the overall NFE project. Thus, Shell's 
ownership of NFE via its JV shareholding is 6.25%. 
▪ In October 2022, we were also selected as a partner in the North 
Field South (NFS) project (Shell interest 9.375%). Shell participation 
in the NFS project remains subject to clearance of remaining 
customary conditions precedent.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Integrated Gas continued
40 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
40
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Business and property
Integrated Gas 
A complete list of LNG and GTL plants in operation and under construction in which we have an interest is provided below.
 LNG liquefaction plants in operation at December 31, 2022 [A]
 
Asset Location Shell interest (%)
100% capacity 
(mtpa) [B] Shell-operated
Asia
Brunei Brunei LNG Lumut 25  7.6 No
Oman Oman LNG Sur 30  7.1 No
Qalhat LNG [C] Sur 11  3.7 No
Qatar Qatargas 4 [D] Ras Laffan 30  7.8 No
Oceania
Australia Australia North West Shelf [D] Karratha 16.7  16.9 No
Gorgon LNG [D] Barrow Island  25  15.6 No
Prelude [D] Browse Basin 67.5  3.6 Yes
Queensland Curtis LNG T1 [D] Curtis Island 50  4.3 Yes
Queensland Curtis LNG T2 [D] Curtis Island 97.5 4.3 Yes
Africa
Egypt [E] Egyptian LNG T1 Idku 35.5  3.6 No
Egyptian LNG T2 Idku 38  3.6 No
Nigeria Nigeria LNG Bonny 25.6 24.1 No
South America
Peru Peru LNG Pampa Melchorita 20  4.5 No
Trinidad and Tobago Atlantic LNG T1 Point Fortin 46  3 No
Atlantic LNG T2/T3 Point Fortin 57.5  6.6 No
Atlantic LNG T4 Point Fortin 51.1 5.2 No
[A] We have offtake rights via a lease to 100% of the capacity (2.5 mtpa) of the Kinder Morgan-operated Elba Island liquefaction plant in Georgia, USA.
[B] 100% capacity represents the total capacity that all trains can process as reported by the operator. 
[C] The interest is held via an indirect shareholding through Oman LNG. 
[D] These assets are clustered as integrated assets and have onshore or offshore upstream production.
[E] In January 2014, force majeure notices were issued under the LNG agreements as a result of domestic gas diversions severely restricting volumes available to the Egyptian LNG (ELNG) plant. 
These notices remain in place.
 LNG liquefaction plants under construction at December 31, 2022
 
Asset Location Shell interest (%)
100% capacity 
(mtpa) [A] Shell-operated
Africa
Nigeria Train 7 [B] Bonny  25.6  7.6 No
North America
Canada LNG Canada T1-2 [C] Kitimat  40.0  14.0 No
Asia
Qatar NFE JV [D] Ras Laffan  25.0  8.0 No
[A] 100% capacity represents the total capacity that all trains are expected to process as reported by the operator. 
[B] First LNG is expected around the middle of the 2020s.
[C] Construction started in October 2018 and first LNG is expected around the middle of the 2020s.
[D] Shell holds 25% in the joint venture, which in turn owns 25% of the North Field East expansion project, which has a nameplate capacity of 32 million tonnes per annum. First LNG is expected 
later in the 2020s. 
 GTL plants in operation at December 31, 2022
 
Asset Location Shell interest (%)
100% capacity 
(b/d) [A] Shell-operated
Asia
Malaysia Shell MDS Bintulu  72.0  14,700 Yes
Qatar Pearl Ras Laffan  100.0  140,000 Yes
[A] 100% capacity represents the total capacity of the plant.
We also have interests and rights in the regasification terminals listed below. Extension of leases or rights beyond the periods mentioned below 
will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Integrated Gas continued
41 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
41
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 LNG regasification terminals 
 
Project name Location
Shell capacity 
rights (mtpa)
Capacity rights 
period
Shell interest (%) 
and rights
Costa Azul Baja California, Mexico 2.7 2008–2028 Capacity rights
Cove Point Lusby, MD, USA 1.8 2003–2023 Capacity rights
Dragon LNG Milford Haven, UK 3.1 2009–2029  50 
Eemshaven Groningen, the Netherlands 3.1 2022–2027 Capacity rights
Elba Island Elba Island, GA, USA 4.6 2003–2027 Leased
Elba Island Elba Island, GA, USA 2.8 2006–2036 Leased
Elba Island Expansion Elba Island, GA, USA 4.2 2010–2035 Leased
GATE (Gas Access to Europe) Rotterdam, the Netherlands 1.5 2015–2031 Capacity rights
Lake Charles Lake Charles, LA, USA 4.4 2002–2030 Leased
Lake Charles Expansion Lake Charles, LA, USA 8.7 2005–2030 Leased
Singapore SGM SLNG, Singapore [A] 2013–2029 Import rights
Singapore SETL SLNG, Singapore [A] 2018–2035 Import rights
Singapore SETL SLNG, Singapore up to 1.0 [B] 2021–2025 Import rights
Shell Energy India Pvt Ltd (formerly Hazira) Gujarat, India 5 2005–2035  100 
Shell LNG Gibraltar Gibraltar up to 0.04 2018–2038  51 
[A] Licences to import LNG and sell regasified LNG in Singapore with no volume cap.
[B] Exclusive licence to import LNG and sell regasified LNG in Singapore for up to 1.0 mtpa.
Colibri gas for LNG export and domestic
use in Trinidad and Tobago
In 2022, we produced gas for the first time from the Shell-
operated Colibri project in Trinidad and Tobago. Most of 
Colibri’s gas is exported as liquefied natural gas (LNG).
Gas will also be used in the country’s petrochemical sector
and to generate electricity for the country. 
The final investment decision on Colibri was taken in March 
2020. The team continued to implement the project and first gas 
was reached in March 2022, despite termination of operations 
by a key supplier. We delivered safely, within budget and ahead 
of schedule.
Colibri is expected to reach about 250 million standard cubic 
feet of gas per day at peak production through a series of four 
subsea gas wells. The wells are tied back to the existing 
Poinsettia platform in the North Coast Marine Area (NCMA). 
Shell seeks to provide more affordable, reliable, and cleaner 
energy to our customers. While the vast majority of Colibri’s 
gas will be exported, about 25% will be supplied to Trinidad 
and Tobago’s National Gas Company (NGC), which will 
deliver it to the local power utility, Trinidad & Tobago 
Electricity Commission, to power homes and businesses. 
The NGC also supplies gas to petrochemicals plants in 
Trinidad, a major exporter of ammonia and methanol.
Photo: Seven Borealis pipelay vessel adjacent to the Poinsettia production facility 
conducting pipelay activities for the Colibri project.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Integrated Gas continued
42 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
42
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Oil and natural gas production, exploration and development
Australia 
We operate the Queensland Curtis LNG (QCLNG) venture’s natural 
gas operations, including wells, compression stations and processing 
plants, in Queensland’s Surat Basin. We have interests ranging from 
44% to 74% in 25 field compression stations and six central processing 
plants. Our production of natural gas from the onshore Surat Basin 
supplies the QCLNG liquefaction plant and the domestic gas market. 
We have a 50% interest in Arrow, a Queensland-based joint venture 
with China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). Arrow owns 
coalbed methane assets and a domestic power business.
In addition, Shell has interests in offshore production, LNG liquefaction 
and exploration licences in the Browse Basin and in the North West 
Shelf (NWS) and Greater Gorgon areas of the Carnarvon Basin. 
Woodside is the operator on behalf of the NWS joint venture (Shell 
interest 16.7%). We have a 25% interest in the Chevron-operated 
Gorgon LNG joint venture that includes offshore production.
In the Browse Basin, Shell is the operator for the Prelude field 
(Shell interest 67.5%); the Crux gas and condensate development 
field (Shell interest 84.5%), where a final investment decision was 
taken in May 2022; and other backfill projects for Prelude FLNG.
We are also a partner in the Browse joint arrangement (Shell interest 
27%) covering the Brecknock, Calliance and Torosa gas fields, which 
are under development and operated by Woodside.
Barbados
In 2022, we farmed into two exploration blocks (Shell interest 40%), 
where our partner is the operator.
Bolivia
We hold a 37.5% participating interest in the Caipipendi block where 
we produce and deliver natural gas to domestic and export markets. 
We also have a 25% interest in the Tarija XX West block where we 
produce from the Itaú field. 
In 2022, we exited the Iñiguazu exploration block (operated by 
Repsol) where we held a 15% participating interest.
Canada
In Canada, we produce and market natural gas, natural gas liquids 
and condensate. We hold mineral acres, primarily in the Montney 
play in British Colombia and Alberta. We operate four natural gas 
processing area facilities at our Groundbirch asset in British Colombia. 
China
We develop and produce from the onshore Changbei tight-gas 
field under a production-sharing contract (PSC) with CNPC.
Colombia
We have 50% interests in three blocks that we operate, and 60% 
interests in two other deep-water blocks where Chevron is the operator.
Egypt 
We have a 25% interest in the Burullus Gas Company (Burullus) joint 
venture, which operates the West Delta Deep Marine concession
(Shell interest 50%) and supplies gas to the domestic market and the 
Egyptian LNG plant. We have a 50% interest in the Rashid Petroleum 
Company (Rashpetco) joint venture, which operates the Rosetta 
concession (Shell interest 100%). We have a 30% interest in the
El Burg Offshore Company (EBOC) joint venture, which operates
the El Burg offshore concession (Shell interest 60%). 
We have participating interests in several exploration concessions
in the Nile Delta, the wider East Mediterranean and the Red Sea.
Indonesia
We have a 35% interest in the INPEX Masela Ltd joint venture,
which owns and operates the offshore Masela block.
Oman
We have a concession to develop and produce natural gas from
Block 10 (Shell interest 53.45%). We also have a separate gas sales 
agreement for gas produced from the block. In September 2022,
Shell and its partners signed an exploration and production-sharing 
agreement with the government of Oman for the exploration, 
evaluation and development of natural gas resources and
condensate in Block 11 (Shell interest 67.5%).
Qatar
We operate the Pearl GTL plant (Shell interest 100%) in Qatar under
a development and production-sharing contract with the government. 
The fully integrated facility has the capacity to produce, process and 
transport 1.6 billion standard cubic feet per day (scf/d) of gas from 
Qatar’s North Field. 
We have a 30% interest in Qatargas 4, which comprises integrated 
facilities to produce around 1.4 billion scf/d of gas from Qatar’s North 
Field, an onshore gas-processing facility. In July 2022, QatarEnergy 
selected us to participate in the North Field East (NFE) expansion 
project in Qatar. In December 2022, QatarEnergy and Shell closed 
the transaction resulting in Shell purchasing 25% of the shareholding 
in a joint venture (JV) which owns a 25% interest in the overall NFE 
project. Thus, Shell's ownership of NFE via its JV shareholding is 6.25%. 
In October 2022, we were also selected as a partner in the North Field 
South project (Shell interest 9.375%). Shell participation in the North 
Field South project remains subject to clearance of remaining 
customary conditions precedent.
Russia
Shell announced in the first quarter 2022 its intent to withdraw from 
its ventures in Russia with Gazprom and related entities, and to end 
its involvement in the Nord Stream 2 pipeline project. 
 
See Note 6, which is incorporated by reference into the Strategic Report, on 
pages 262-264 for the actions we have taken since these announcements and 
for the impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Tanzania 
We operate and have a 60% interest in Blocks 1 and 4 off the coast
of southern Tanzania under a production-sharing agreement with the 
government of Tanzania that expires in 2024.
Trinidad and Tobago
We have interests in three concessions with producing fields: Central 
Block (Shell interest 65%), North Coast Marine Area (Shell interest 
80.5%), and East Coast Marine Area (Shell interest 100%). In 2022, 
production started on Block 22 (Shell interest 90%) and NCMA-4 
(Shell interest 80%) in the North Coast Marine Area.
Our interests range from 35% to 100% in exploration Blocks 5(d), 
5(c)REA, 6(d), and Atlantic Area Block 5.
Turkey 
In 2022 we released our exploration licence in the Western Black Sea.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Integrated Gas continued
43 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
43
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Upstream
Upstream explores for and extracts crude 
oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. It also 
markets and transports oil and gas, and operates 
the infrastructure necessary to deliver them to 
the market. Shell’s Upstream business delivers 
reliable energy from conventional oil and gas 
operations, as well as deep-water exploration 
and production activities. We are focusing our 
Upstream portfolio to become more resilient, 
prioritising value over volume to provide the 
energy the world needs today whilst funding 
the energy system of tomorrow.
Segment earnings ($ billion)
16.2 2021: 9.6
Adjusted Earnings ($ billion)
17.3 2021: 8.0
Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion)
29.6 2021: 21.6
Production (thousand boe/d)
1,897 2021: 2,178
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value
44 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
44
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Key statistics [A]
 
$ million, except where indicated
2022 2021 2020
Segment earnings/(loss)  16,222  9,603  (9,300) 
Including:
Revenue (including inter-segment sales)  60,637  44,971  27,763 
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates  2,111  632  (7) 
Interest and other income  726  4,592  541 
Operating expenses [B]  10,364  10,324  10,650 
Underlying operating expenses [B]  10,802  10,086  9,894 
Exploration  1,472  1,301  1,131 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  10,334  13,485  21,079 
Taxation charge/(credit)  14,070  6,057  (103) 
Identified Items [B]  (1,096)  1,587  (6,874) 
Adjusted Earnings [B]  17,319  8,015  (2,426) 
Adjusted EBITDA [B]  42,100  27,170  13,045 
Capital expenditure  8,020  6,277  6,714 
Cash capital expenditure [B]  8,143  6,168  7,099 
Oil and gas production available for sale (thousand boe/d)  1,897  2,178  2,324 
[A] With effect from January 1, 2022, our reporting segments are Integrated Gas, Upstream, Marketing, Chemicals and Products, Renewables and Energy Solutions and Corporate. 
Comparative information has been revised.
[B] See "Non-GAAP measures reconciliations" on pages 362-365.
Business conditions
For the business conditions relevant to Upstream, see "Market 
overview" on pages 35-37.
Production available for sale
In 2022, production was 692 million barrels of oil equivalent (boe), 
or 1,897 thousand boe per day (boe/d), compared with 795 million 
boe, or 2,178 thousand boe/d in 2021. Liquids production 
decreased by 12% and natural gas production decreased by 15%, 
compared with 2021. 
Total production, compared with 2021, decreased as a result of 
divestments and scheduled maintenance. The impact of field decline 
was more than offset by growth from new fields.
Controllable availability of 84.7% was driven mainly by 
unscheduled deferments in Nigeria (Forcados Oil terminal repairs), 
extended turnarounds and reliability in the UK (Pierce FPSO, 
Shearwater and Gannet).
Earnings 2022-2021
Upstream earnings in 2022 were $16,222 million, compared with 
$9,603 million in 2021. The increase was mainly driven by higher 
realised oil and gas prices and a gain related to storage and working 
gas transfer effects and impairment reversals. This was partly offset by 
lower volumes, mainly as a result of divestments, and charges related 
to the EU solidarity contribution and UK Energy Profits Levy. 
Full year 2022 segment earnings included a gain from net impairment 
reversals of $853 million and charges of $1,385 million relating to EU 
solidarity contributions and $802 million relating to the UK Energy 
Profits Levy. These gains and losses are part of identified items and 
compare with the full year 2021, which included a net gain of $3,261 
million related to the sale of assets (mainly related to the sale of the 
Permian business in the USA), partly offset by impairment charges of 
$633 million, losses of $393 million for the fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives, and legal provisions of $287 million.
Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EBITDA were driven by the same 
factors as the segment earnings and adjusted for identified items.
Earnings 2021-2020
Upstream earnings in 2021 were a profit of $9,603 million, compared 
with a loss of $9,300 million in 2020. Earnings were helped by higher 
oil and gas prices, mainly driven by the improved macroeconomic 
conditions and the one-off release of a tax provision in Nigeria and 
lower depreciation, partly offset by lower production volumes.
Full year 2021 segment earnings included a net gain of $3,261 million 
related to the sale of assets (mainly related to the sale of the Permian 
business in the USA), partly offset by impairment charges of $633 
million, losses of $393 million for the fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives, and legal provisions of $287 million. These 
gains and losses are part of identified items, and compare with the full 
year 2020 segment earnings which included a net charge of $5,387 
million related to impairments, primarily in the US Gulf of Mexico, 
unconventional assets in North America, offshore assets in Brazil and 
Europe, and a project in Nigeria (OPL245), mainly triggered by 
revision of Shell's mid- and long-term commodity price and updated 
Appomattox subsurface understanding. Also included was a net 
charge of $782 million related to the impact of the weakening 
Brazilian real on a deferred tax position.
Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EBITDA were driven by the same 
factors as the segment earnings and adjusted for identified items.
Cash capital expenditure
Cash capital expenditure in 2022 was $8.1 billion, compared with 
$6.2 billion in 2021. The increased expenditure in 2022 was mainly a 
result of the Brazil Atapu Transfer of Rights and a ramp-up in projects, 
partially offset by the slippage of activities across the portfolio and 
divestments. Our cash capital expenditure is expected to be around 
$8 billion in 2023.
Portfolio and business development
We took the following key portfolio decisions during 2022:
▪ In Brazil, in April 2022, we signed a production-sharing contract 
(PSC) to formally acquire a 25% stake in the Atapu Field.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued
45 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
45
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

▪ In Brazil, in May 2022, we started production at the FPSO 
Guanabara in the Mero field, in the offshore Santos Basin.
▪ In Malaysia, in September 2022, together with PETRONAS Carigali 
Sdn Bhd, we took the final investment decision (FID) to develop the 
Rosmari-Marjoram gas project.
▪ In the UK, in July 2022, we took the final investment decision (FID) to 
develop the Jackdaw North Sea gas field.
▪ In the US Gulf of Mexico, in March 2022, we started the production 
at PowerNap, a subsea development.
▪ In the US Gulf of Mexico, in February 2023, we started production 
at Vito, a Shell-operated floating production facility.
We continued to divest assets during 2022, including: 
▪ In Malaysia, in December 2022, we agreed to sell our stake in two 
offshore production sharing contracts (PSCs) in the Baram Delta to 
Petroleum Sarawak Exploration & Production Sdn. Bhd. ("PSEP"). The 
sale concerns non-operated interests of 40% in the Amended 2011 
Baram Delta EOR PSC and 50% in the SK 307 PSC. The remaining 
interests in both PSCs are held by the operator, PETRONAS Carigali 
Sdn Bhd ("PCSB"). Sale completion is expected in 2023. 
▪ In the Philippines, in November 2022, we sold our 100% 
shareholding in Shell Philippines Exploration B.V. (SPEX) to 
Malampaya Energy XP Pte Ltd (MEXP), a subsidiary of Prime 
Infrastructure Capital Inc (Prime Infra).
▪ In the USA, in February 2023, we sold our 100% interest in Shell 
Onshore Ventures LLC, which holds a 51.8% membership interest in 
Aera Energy LLC to IKAV.
Shell announced in the first quarter of 2022 its intent to withdraw from 
its ventures in Russia with Gazprom and related entities.
 
See Note 6, which is incorporated by reference into the Strategic Report, on 
pages 262-264 for the actions we have taken since these announcements and 
for the impact on the consolidated financial statements. 
Business and property
Our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are involved in all 
aspects of upstream activities, including land tenure, entitlement 
to produced hydrocarbons, production rates, royalties, pricing, 
environmental protection, social impact, exports, taxes and 
foreign exchange. 
The conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under which oil and 
gas interests are held vary from country to country. In almost all cases 
outside North America, legal agreements are generally granted by, or 
entered into with, a government, state-owned company, government-
run oil and gas company or agency. The exploration risk usually rests 
with the independent oil and gas company. In North America, these 
agreements may also be with private parties that own mineral rights. 
Of these agreements, the following are most relevant to our interests: 
▪ Licences (or concessions), which entitle the holder to explore for 
hydrocarbons and exploit any commercial discoveries. Under a 
licence, the holder bears the risk of exploration, development and 
production activities, and is responsible for financing these activities. 
In principle, the licence holder is entitled to the totality of production 
less any royalties in kind. The government, state-owned company or 
government-run oil and gas company may sometimes enter into a 
joint arrangement as a participant, sharing the rights and obligations 
of the licence but usually without sharing the exploration risk. In a 
few cases, the state-owned company, government-run oil and gas 
company or agency has an option to purchase a certain share of 
production. 
▪ Lease agreements, which are typically used in North America and 
are usually governed by terms similar to licences. Participants may 
include governments or private entities. Royalties are either paid in 
cash or in kind. 
▪ Production-sharing contracts (PSCs) entered into with a 
government, state-owned company or government-run oil and gas 
company. PSCs generally oblige the independent oil and gas 
company, as contractor, to provide all the financing and bear the 
risk of exploration, development and production activities in 
exchange for a share of the production. Usually, this share 
consists of a fixed or variable part that is reserved for the recovery 
of the contractor’s cost (cost oil). The remaining production is split 
with the government, state-owned company or government-run oil 
and gas company on a fixed or volume/revenue-dependent basis. 
In some cases, the government, state-owned company or 
government-run oil and gas company will participate in the rights 
and obligations of the contractor and will share in the costs of 
development and production. Such participation can be across 
the venture or on a field-by-field basis. Additionally, as the price of 
oil or gas increases above certain predetermined levels, the 
independent oil and gas company’s entitlement share of 
production normally decreases, and vice versa. Accordingly, its 
interest in a project may not be the same as its entitlement.
Europe
Germany
Shell and ExxonMobil are 50:50 shareholders of BEB Erdgas und 
Erdoel GmbH & Co. KG (BEB) which owns interests in various 
concessions mainly in Lower Saxony. ExxonMobil Production 
Deutschland GmbH has a service contract with BEB under which it 
provides operating services to BEB for most of the concessions.
Italy
Shell has a 39% interest in the Val d’Agri producing concession, 
operated by ENI S.p.A. 
We also have a 25% interest in the Tempa Rossa producing 
concession, operated by TotalEnergies EP Italia S.p.A.
Netherlands
Shell and ExxonMobil are 50:50 shareholders in Nederlandse 
Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (NAM). NAM holds a 60% interest in the 
onshore low-calorific Groningen gas field (the remaining 40% interest is 
held by EBN, a Dutch government entity), the Schoonebeek oil field 
and some 25 smaller hydrocarbon production licences.
Production from the Groningen field induces earthquakes which have 
led to damage claims, security concerns, a strengthening operation to 
make buildings earthquake resistant and calls from residents and local 
politicians to close the field.
Since 2013, the Dutch government has set the annual production 
and capacity target for the Groningen field which for the gas year 
2022-2023 (ending October 1, 2023) was set at 2.8 billion cubic 
metres. For 2021-2022 the production level was set at 4.5 billion 
cubic metres.
In June 2018, NAM’s shareholders and the Dutch government 
signed a heads of agreement (HoA) to reduce and eventually stop 
production from the Groningen field, and to ensure the financial 
robustness of NAM to fulfil its obligations. Pursuant to this HoA no 
dividend is expected for 2022 as dividend payments can only be 
made if a solvency ratio of 25% is reached and maintained.
In September 2018, detailed agreements were signed to further 
implement the HoA. As part of these agreements, Shell has guaranteed 
50% of NAM’s 60% share of earthquake-related costs for damage 
claims and the strengthening of buildings. Whilst the Dutch government 
has responsibility for issuing production instructions for annual 
Groningen production and has set up public entities for settling 
damage claims and strengthening buildings, NAM remains liable to 
pay for damage caused by earthquakes and strengthening required to 
comply with the safety norm. Under the terms of the HoA, it was 
agreed that the Dutch government would pass on to NAM costs insofar 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued
46 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
46
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

as the costs corresponded to NAM’s liability. In 2022, NAM started 
arbitrations with the Dutch government to have its financial liability 
determined for costs which the Dutch government compensated to 
claimants and subsequently charged to NAM.
In September 2019, the Dutch government announced that the 
reduction of Groningen production would be accelerated and that 
production would cease in 2022, eight years earlier than planned in 
the HoA. This has been revised to 2023 or 2024, provided that certain 
conditions are met, including the timely start-up of a new nitrogen 
plant, sufficient reduction in demand for low-cal gas, usage of NAM’s 
underground gas storages (UGS) in Grijpskerk and Norg, and 
sufficient supply of high-cal gas. Compensation payments are made by 
the government to NAM for the revised usage of the Norg UGS. 
Discussions continue between the Dutch government and NAM 
shareholders regarding the compensation payable by the Dutch 
government to NAM in order to give effect to the terms of the HoA.
The parliamentary enquiry into the production of gas from Groningen 
and the subsequent effects of the earthquakes moved into the public 
hearings phase in 2022 and the final report was published on February 
24, 2023.
On October 26, 2021, NAM announced that it would split up its non-
Groningen assets into several new legal entities, with the intent to 
divest those legal entities.
Norway
Shell is a partner in 20 production licences on the Norwegian 
continental shelf, and the operator of eight of these. We have interests 
in two gas-producing fields: Shell-operated Ormen Lange (Shell interest 
17.8%) and Equinor-operated Troll (Shell interest 8.1%). In 2022, a plan 
for development and operation was submitted for government 
approval for the Equinor-operated gas discovery Irpa (Shell interest 
10%), as a tie-back to the Aasta Hansteen field. We are also the 
operator of two fields which are being decommissioned: Knarr (which 
ceased production in 2022) and Gaupe. In addition, we are the 
technical service provider for the Gassco-operated Nyhamna 
processing plant.
UK
Shell operates a number of interests on the UK continental shelf under 
50:50 joint-venture agreements with Neo Energy and has a 50:50 joint 
venture agreement with ExxonMobil for the SEGAL gas transportation 
system; the Brent Field, which is being decommissioned; and other 
assets in the North Sea. Shell also has non-operated positions in the 
West of Shetland area, namely Clair (Shell interest 27.97%) and 
Schiehallion (Shell interest 44.89%), both operated by BP.
In May 2022, the UK’s Offshore Petroleum Regulator for Environment 
and Decommissioning (OPRED) approved the revised environmental 
statement for the Jackdaw gas field development and gave production 
consent in June 2022. In July, Greenpeace applied for a judicial review 
of the Regulator’s decision. The application has, at Greenpeace’s 
request, been put on hold pending the decision by the UK Supreme 
Court on another case which concerns similar legal issues, and which 
will likely be heard in the second half of 2023. If the hold on 
Greenpeace’s judicial review application is lifted, we currently believe 
there is a relatively low risk of disruption to the Jackdaw project, in 
terms of delays and/or changes to the project. The project is expected 
to come on stream in the mid-2020s.
In 2022, Shell drilled five exploration wells on the UK continental shelf.
From April 2022, Shell assumed the role of technical development lead 
for the CO
2 capture, transportation and storage modules of the Acorn 
carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS) and hydrogen project. 
Acorn is part of the Scottish Cluster, which continues to be the Track 1 
reserve cluster in the UK government’s CCUS cluster sequencing 
process. This means that if another cluster selected as Track 1 is 
discontinued the Scottish Cluster may take its place.
In November 2022, Shell completed the acquisition of a 100% interest 
in Corallian Energy Limited. The interest comprises the P.2596 licence 
containing the Victory field gas discovery west of Shetland which is 
expected to be a subsea tie-back to existing infrastructure tied into the 
Shetland Gas Plant. Gas would be exported via existing pipelines to 
the North Sea Midstream Partners operated plant at St Fergus, helping 
to ensure longer-term gas supply for the UK. 
Decommissioning of the Heather A platform and Curlew floating 
production, storage and offloading (FPSO) asset continued in 2022. 
Production from Brent Charlie ceased in the first quarter of 2021 and 
topsides preparations are ongoing in readiness for the lift, removal and 
recycling of the facilities. OPRED continues to assess the Brent Field 
decommissioning programme, which pertains to the Brent gravity-based 
substructures. 
Rest of Europe
Shell also has interests in Albania.
Asia (including the Middle East and Russia)
Brunei
Shell and the Brunei government are 50:50 shareholders in Brunei Shell 
Petroleum Company Sendirian Berhad (BSP). BSP has long-term 
onshore and offshore oil and gas concession rights and sells most of its 
gas production to Brunei LNG Sendirian Berhad, with the remainder 
sold in the domestic market.
 
See "Integrated Gas" on pages 38-43.
In addition to our interest in BSP, we have a non-operating interest in 
the offshore Block B concession (Shell interest 35%, operated by 
TotalEnergies), where gas and condensate are produced from the 
Maharaja Lela field. 
We have a non-operating interest in a gas holding area for deep-water 
Block CA2 (Shell interest 12.5%, operated by Petronas), under a PSC.
We operate the deep-water Block CA1 (Shell interest 86.95%), in 
which the Jagus-East field is located, under a PSC. As referred to in the 
Malaysia section below, the Jagus-East field and the Geronggong field, 
held by BSP, form part of the unitised GKGJE field. 
Iraq
Shell has a 44% interest in the Basrah Gas Company, which gathers, 
treats and processes associated gas that was previously being flared 
from the Rumaila, West Qurna 1 and Zubair fields. The processed gas 
and associated products, such as condensate and LPG, are sold to the 
domestic market. Any surplus condensate and LPG is exported.
Kazakhstan
Shell is the joint operator with ENI S.p.A. of the onshore Karachaganak 
oil and condensate field (Shell interest 29.3%). The Karachaganak field 
is in north-west Kazakhstan and covers an area of more than 280 
square kilometres.
We also have an interest in the North Caspian Sea Production Sharing 
Agreement (Shell interest 16.8%) which includes the Kashagan field in 
the Kazakh sector of the Caspian Sea. The North Caspian Operating 
Company is the operator. This shallow-water field covers an area of 
around 3,400 square kilometres.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued
47 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
47
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

We have a 7.4% interest in the Caspian Pipeline Consortium which 
owns and operates an oil pipeline running from the Caspian Sea to 
the Black Sea, across parts of Kazakhstan and Russia. We hold our 
interest in the Caspian Pipeline Consortium via three legal entities, 
two of which are wholly owned by Shell, and the other is a joint 
venture with Rosneft (Shell interest 49%), Rosneft-Shell Caspian 
Ventures Ltd (Cyprus) (RSCV), which was formed in 1996 to primarily 
own and manage pipeline capacity rights. We continue to manage 
that part of our interest in CPC held through RSCV in full compliance 
with applicable laws.
Malaysia
Shell explores for and produces oil and gas off the coast of Sabah 
and Sarawak under 21 PSCs, in which our interests range from 20% 
to 92.5%.
Offshore Sabah
▪ We operate two producing oil fields: (i) the Malikai deep-water field 
(Shell interest 35%), and (ii) the unitised GKGJE field consisting of 
the Malaysian Gumusut and Kakap fields and the Bruneian 
Geronggong and Jagus-East fields that straddle the Malaysia-Brunei 
border and have been made into a single unit. Shell’s interest in the 
unitised field is 37.89%. In June 2022, we took the final investment 
decision on the GKGJE Phase 4 oil development project. In July 
2022, we achieved first oil for the Phase 3 development.
▪ In March 2022, we signed two new exploration PSCs for Block 2W 
and X (Shell interest 50% each).
▪ In our non-operated portfolio:
– We have a 21% interest in the Siakap North-Petai deep-water field 
and a 30% interest in the Kebabangan field.
– In October 2022, we signed a new exploration PSC for Block SB 
2K (Shell interest 25.1%).
– In February 2023, we completed the farm-in to one exploration 
PSC for Block SB2V (Shell interest 40%).
Offshore Sarawak
▪ We are the operator of eight producing gas fields and one 
producing oil and gas field. Nearly all the gas produced offshore 
Sarawak is supplied to Malaysia LNG (MLNG) and to our gas-to-
liquids plant in Bintulu. The fields are:
– gas fields F6, F23, E8, F13 East and F13 West under the MLNG 
PSC (Shell interest 40%);
– gas fields F14 and F28 under the SK308 PSC (Shell interest 50%);
– gas field Gorek under the SK408 PSC (Shell Interest 30%); and
– oil and gas field E6 under the SK308 PSC (Shell interest 50%).
 See "Integrated Gas" on pages 38-43. 
▪ We are also the operator for Block SK318 PSC. This block contains 
the Timi field (Shell interest 75%) which is under development, and 
the Rosmari-Marjoram fields (Shell interest 80%). In September 
2022, together with PETRONAS Carigali Sdn Bhd, we took the final 
investment decision to develop the Rosmari-Marjoram natural gas 
project. Situated around 220 kilometres off the coast of Bintulu, the 
project comprises a remotely operated offshore platform and 
onshore gas plant. Rosmari-Marjoram will mainly be powered by 
renewable energy from solar power offshore and hydroelectric 
power onshore.
▪ In November 2022, we progressed with the execution of the MLNG 
F22, F27, Selasih (FaS) project, which comprises a single well 
development in each of the F22, F27 and Selasih fields to be drilled 
from the wellhead platforms with tie-backs to the F23 hub.
▪ In March 2022, we signed one new exploration PSC for Block 
SK439 and SK440 (Shell interest 92.5%). In February 2023, we 
signed one new PSC for Block SK3B (Shell interest 45%).
▪ In our non-operated portfolio:
– First gas was achieved for SK320 (Shell interest 20%) in April 
2022.
Using renewables to produce gas in 
Malaysia
In 2022, we took the final investment decision to develop the 
Rosmari-Marjoram gas production project in Malaysia. The 
project will be mainly powered by renewable energy, using 
solar power for its remotely operated offshore platform and 
hydroelectric power for its onshore gas plant.
Rosmari-Marjoram is designed to produce 800 million standard 
cubic feet of gas per day and is expected to start production in 
2026. The project will include one of the longest gas offshore 
pipelines in the world, stretching more than 200 kilometres from 
the field to the coast of Sarawak. Once production starts, the 
gas will be piped to the Malaysia liquefied natural gas 
(Malaysia LNG) complex.
Rosmari-Marjoram will help Shell deliver a reliable supply of gas 
and do this while reducing the emissions from our operations. 
This is in line with our Powering Progress energy transition 
strategy to become a net-zero business by 2050.
The project team has demonstrated ingenuity and applied 
a learner mindset to the design, evolving the project from 
a conventional offshore processing platform to a carbon-
competitive onshore gas plant. Shell focuses on seeking 
the highest return from investments within the lowest possible 
carbon emissions budget.
Rosmari-Marjoram’s offshore platform will use power from 240 
solar panels and the onshore plant is connected to the Sarawak 
grid system, which is supplied mainly by hydroelectric plants. 
Batteries and diesel generators will be held in reserve as back-up 
to ensure the safety of our operations.
Photo: The Rosmari-Marjoram gas project will feed the Bintulu LNG export plant 
in Sarawak, Malaysia.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued
48 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
48
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

– We have a 30% interest in Jerun which is part of the Block SK408 
PSC. Jerun is a gas development with an integrated central 
processing platform. Block SK408 also contains the producing 
non-Shell-operated Larak and Bakong fields.
– We also have a 40% interest in the amended 2011 Baram Delta 
enhanced oil recovery PSC and a 50% interest in the SK307 PSC. 
In December 2022, Shell signed an agreement to sell its non-
operated interests in these two PSCs to Petroleum Sarawak 
Exploration and Production Sdn Bhd (PSEP), effective January 1, 
2023. The sale is expected to be completed in early 2023, 
subject to completion of conditions which include, amongst others, 
regulatory approval.
Oman
Shell has a 34% interest in Petroleum Development Oman (PDO), 
which operates the Block 6 oil concession. Shell is entitled to 34% of oil 
produced from Block 6 through its interest in Private Oil Holdings 
Oman Ltd. The government of Oman has a 60% interest in PDO and 
the Block 6 oil concession through its 100% owned company, Energy 
Development Oman (EDO). PDO operates a concession area of about 
90,000 square kilometres and has more than 200 producing oil fields.
We have a 50% interest in Block 42 under an Exploration and 
Production Sharing Agreement (EPSA) where Shell is the operator. The 
other 50% interest is held by the government through its 100% owned 
company, OQ. We have a 100% interest in Block 55 under an EPSA.
Russia
Shell announced in the first quarter of 2022 its intent to withdraw from 
its ventures in Russia with Gazprom and related entities.
 
See Note 6, which is incorporated by reference into the Strategic Report, on 
pages 262-264 for the actions we have taken since these announcements and 
for the impact on the "Consolidated Financial Statements".
Syria
Shell holds a 65% interest in Syria Shell Petroleum Development B.V. 
(SSPD), a joint venture between Shell and the China National 
Petroleum Corporation. SSPD holds a 31.25% interest in Al Furat 
Petroleum Company, a Syrian joint stock company, whose role was to 
perform petroleum operations. Shell also holds a 70% interest in two 
exploration licences via Shell South Syria Exploration B.V. In December 
2011, in compliance with international sanctions on Syria, including 
European Council Decision 2011/782/CFSP, Shell suspended all 
exploration and production activities in Syria. SSPD continued to fulfil 
minimum contractual obligations towards the Syrian finance and labour 
ministries, in compliance with applicable trade control laws. In 2022, 
as part of the minimum contractual obligations, payments for taxes 
related to salary and social security amounted to $1,400.
Rest of Middle East and Asia
Shell also has interests in Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates.
On November 1, 2022, Shell Petroleum N.V. completed the sale of 
its 100% shareholding in Shell Philippines Exploration B.V. (SPEX) to 
Malampaya Energy XP Pte Ltd, a subsidiary of Prime Infrastructure 
Capital Inc (Prime Infra). SPEX owns a 45% operating interest and is 
operator in Service Contract 38, which includes the Malampaya gas 
field. The sale completion transferred ownership and control of SPEX 
to Prime Infra.
Africa
Nigeria
Shell operates a number of interests in onshore and offshore oil 
exploration and production assets in Nigeria.
Onshore
The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) 
is the operator of the SPDC joint venture (SPDC JV, Shell interest 30%) 
which, after the handover of its operations in OML 11 in 2022, has 15 
Niger Delta onshore oil mining leases (OMLs). 
SPDC also has three shallow-water oil mining leases (OML 74, 77 and 
79) and a 40% interest in the non-operated Sunlink joint venture which 
has one shallow-water lease (OML 144).
In 2021, we announced our intention to reduce our involvement in 
onshore oil production in Nigeria, in line with our Powering Progress 
strategy.
Offshore
Our main offshore deep-water activities are carried out by Shell 
Nigeria Exploration and Production Company Limited (SNEPCo, Shell 
interest 100%). SNEPCo has interests in three deep-water blocks that 
are under PSC terms: the producing assets Bonga (OML 118) and Erha 
(OML 133), and the non-producing asset Bolia Chota (OML 135). 
SNEPCo operates OML 118 (Shell interest 55%), including the Bonga 
field FPSO vessel. We also operate OML 135, encompassing the Bolia 
and Doro fields (Shell interest 55%). We have a 43.8% non-operating 
interest in OML 133 (including the Erha FPSO).
In 2022, OML 118 and OML 133 were renewed for 20 years following 
settlement of disputes regarding historic allocation of production 
between Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and the 
parties to the PSCs.
Authorities are investigating our involvement in Nigerian oil Block OPL 
245 and the 2011 settlement of litigation pertaining to that block.
 
See Note 31 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 303-305.
Business update
In August 2021, the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) entered into effect, 
creating a new regulatory framework for the petroleum industry in 
Nigeria. The PIA introduces significant changes and we are actively 
engaged in the implementation process to ensure that these changes 
are implemented in a timely manner in our operations.
In 2022, our share of production, onshore and offshore, in Nigeria was 
131 thousand boe/d, compared with 175 thousand boe/d in 2021. 
Security issues, sabotage and crude oil theft in the Niger Delta 
continued and remained significant challenges to our onshore 
operations in 2022, leading to a significant reduction of crude 
available for export from the Bonny terminal for several months. We 
will continue to monitor the situation closely and evaluate implications 
for the integrity of our infrastructure and the sustainability of our current 
operations. We continue to put the safety of our employees and 
contractors first.
In our Nigerian operations, we face various risks and adverse 
conditions which could have a significant adverse effect on our 
operational performance, earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
 
See "Risk factors" on page 20.
There are limitations to the extent to which we can mitigate these risks. 
We liaise with host communities, and governmental and non-
governmental organisations to help promote peaceful and safe 
operations for our people and local communities. We carry out regular 
portfolio assessments so we can maintain our long-term competitiveness 
in Nigeria. We support the Nigerian government’s efforts to improve 
the efficiency, functionality and domestic benefits of Nigeria’s oil and 
gas industry. We monitor legislative developments and the security 
situation. We continue to be transparent about how we manage and 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued
49 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
49
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

report spills, and how we respond to spills. We implement a 
maintenance strategy to support sustainable equipment reliability and 
have begun a multi-year programme to reduce routine flaring of 
associated gas.
See "Our Journey to net zero" on pages 78-105.
Rest of Africa
Shell also has interests in Algeria, Mauritania, Namibia, Sao Tome 
and Principe, South Africa and Tunisia.
In 2021, Shell announced plans to hand back to the government of 
Tunisia upstream assets associated with the Miskar and Hasdrubal 
concessions. In 2022, Shell handed back the Miskar concession upon 
its expiry. Discussions continue regarding the Hasdrubal hand-back.
North America
Canada
Shales assets in Canada are now reported as part of the Integrated 
Gas segment instead of the Upstream segment.
 
See "Integrated Gas" on pages 38-43.
USA
The majority of our oil and gas interests in the USA comprise leases for 
federal offshore tracts in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Such 
leases usually have a fixed primary term and, once production is 
established, the leases remain in effect through continued production, 
subject to compliance with the terms and provisions of the leases 
(including appurtenant applicable laws and regulations).
In February 2023, we sold our 100% interest in Shell Onshore 
Ventures LLC, which holds a 51.8% membership interest in Aera 
Energy LLC to IKAV. 
Shell holds one licence interest in the North Slope area of Alaska. In 
2020, we received regulatory approval to combine our near-shore 
leases in West Harrison Bay into a single unit. Shell is currently seeking 
a co-owner to operate the unit.
Gulf of Mexico
Shell’s major production area in the USA is the Gulf of Mexico. We 
have a total of 327 active federal offshore leases where Shell is the 
operator and an additional 103 active federal offshore leases where 
Shell has a non-operated interest.
We are the operator of eight production hubs: Mars (Shell interests 
ranging from 33.7% to 100%), Olympus (Shell interests ranging from 
71.5% to 100%), Auger (Shell interests ranging from 27.5% to 100%), 
Perdido (Shell interests ranging from 33.3% to 40%), Ursa (Shell 
interests ranging from 40% to 80%), Enchilada/Salsa (Shell interests 
ranging from 37.5% to 75%), Appomattox (Shell interest 79%) and 
Stones (Shell interest 100%). We also have the West Delta 143 
processing facilities (Shell interest 71.5%). 
We continue to produce from Coulomb (Shell interest 100%) which 
ties into the Na Kika platform (Shell interest 50%) operated by BP.
We continued exploration, development and abandonment activities 
in the Gulf of Mexico in 2022.
In March 2022, we began production at PowerNap (Shell interest 
100%), a subsea tie-back to the Shell-operated Olympus tension leg 
platform (Shell interest 71.5%) in the Mars Corridor. PowerNap is 
expected to produce up to 20,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day 
(boe/d) at peak rates.
Vito - delivering value with a smaller, less 
costly design
Upstream seeks to deliver more value for shareholders by 
producing oil and gas more cost competitively, while striving 
for lower carbon emissions. Shell has more than 40 years of 
deep-water experience and we are constantly learning. 
We planned a new Shell-operated deep-water platform for the 
Gulf of Mexico, Vito (Shell interest 63.1%), and then redesigned 
it to be simpler and more cost-efficient. The result: a platform a 
third of its original planned size at 70% less cost. The Vito team 
rose to the challenge and achieved first production in February 
2023. Peak production is estimated at 100,000 barrels of oil 
equivalent per day.
Vito’s simplified hull design reduces operating expenses since it 
requires less maintenance. Its simplified mooring design requires 
less equipment, less capital investment and reduces safety 
exposures to operators. By limiting the topside scope to a weight 
less than 9,000 tonnes, this new design focused on being less 
complex to operate and less expensive to build.
Vito has not only delivered shareholder value but will also pave 
the way for other deep-water developments through innovation 
and simplification. Our Shell-operated Whale project (Shell 
interest 60%), also in the Gulf of Mexico and approved in 2021, 
will follow suit and replicate much of Vito’s smaller, more cost-
effective design.
 
Photo: In July 2022, our latest deep-water project, Vito, set sail from Ingleside, Texas 
to go out for installation in the US Gulf of Mexico.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued
50 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
50
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Together with our partner, China National Offshore Oil Corporation 
(CNOOC), we have reached a final investment decision (FID) on 
Rydberg (Shell interest 80%). It is a subsea tie-back to the Shell-
operated Appomattox production hub (Shell interest 79%). The 
project is expected to start production in 2024 and produce up to 
16,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boe/d) at peak rates.
In June 2022, we acquired a 51% operated interest from Equinor in the 
North Platte deep-water development project. To reflect Shell’s entry to 
the project, Shell and Equinor have agreed to rename the North Platte 
opportunity to Sparta. Front-end engineering and design (FEED) has 
been well matured, and Shell is working closely with Equinor to 
progress the opportunity.
In February 2023, we began production at the Shell-operated Vito 
floating production facility (Shell interest 63.1%). Vito is expected to 
produce up to 100,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boe/d) at 
peak rates. We also made progress on the development of Whale 
(Shell interest 60%), which is a Shell-operated stand-alone host in the 
execution phase, expected to achieve first oil in late 2024.
The 2022 Atlantic hurricane season did not have a material impact 
on production at our Gulf of Mexico assets.
Rest of North America
Shell also has deep-water licences and one shallow-water licence 
in Mexico.
South America
Argentina
Shell has interests in the onshore Vaca Muerta Basin in the Neuquén 
Province. We are the operator of the Cruz de Lorena, Sierras Blancas 
and Coiron Amargo Sur Oeste (Shell interest 90% each), and Bajada 
de Añelo (Shell interest 50%) areas. We have non-operated interests 
in the areas of Rincon La Ceniza and La Escalonada (Shell interest 
45% each), both operated by Total Austral S.A., and in the Bandurria 
Sur area (Shell interest 30%), operated by YPF S.A. We are the 
operator of a joint venture created for the construction of a pipeline 
which connects Sierras Blancas and the regional distribution network 
(Shell interest 60%).
In the north-western Argentina basin, we have a non-operated interest 
in the onshore Acambuco area (Shell interest 22.5%), operated by Pan 
American Energy.
In addition to the producing interests, we are the operator of two 
frontier exploration areas offshore Argentina (Shell interest 60% each) 
and we have a non-operated interest in an adjacent area (Shell interest 
30%), operated by Equinor.
Brazil
Shell’s operated assets in Brazil consist of the Bijupirá and Salema 
fields (Shell interest 80% each), which are being decommissioned; 
the producing BC-10 field (Shell interest 50%) in the Campos Basin; 
the Gato do Mato and the adjacent Sul de Gato do Mato areas in 
the Santos Basin (Shell interest 50%), subject to unitisation and with 
development options under evaluation. We also hold an interest in 
13 exploration blocks in the Santos Basin (Shell interests ranging 
from 45% to 100%), 10 blocks in the Barreirinhas Basin (Shell 
interests ranging from 50% to 100%), four blocks in the Campos 
Basin (Shell interests ranging from 40% to 100%) and one block in 
the Potiguar Basin (Shell interest 100%). 
Our non-operated portfolio consists of eight producing fields in the 
offshore Santos Basin: the Sapinhoá field (Shell interest 30%, 
operated by Petrobras and straddling the BM-S-9 and Entorno de 
Sapinhoá blocks already unitised); the Lapa field (Shell interest 30% 
in Block BM-S-9A, operated by TotalEnergies); the Berbigão and 
Sururu fields (Shell interest 25% in Block BM-S-11A, operated by 
Petrobras and subject to ongoing unitisation agreement discussions); 
the Atapu field (Shell interest 16.7% and straddling the BM-S-11A 
and Atapu PSC area already unitised); the Tupi field (Shell interest 
23%, already unitised, in Block BM-S-11 and operated by Petrobras); 
the Iracema field (Shell interest 25% in Block BM-S-11 and operated 
by Petrobras); and the Mero field in the Libra PSC area (Shell interest 
20%, unitisation with an adjoining area still subject to government 
approval and operated by Petrobras).
In addition to the producing assets, we hold interests in four non-
operated exploration blocks, two in the Santos Basin (Shell interest 
of 20% and 40%, both operated by Petrobras) and two in the 
Potiguar Basin (Shell interest 40%, both operated by Petrobras).
The FPSO Guanabara production started in the Mero field in April 
2022, offshore Santos Basin. Mero is expected to receive three more 
FPSOs and start producing from these between 2023 and 2025.
In April 2022, we signed the PSC related to the acquisition of 25% of 
Atapu Transfer of Rights area (acquired in the ANP bid round in 2021) 
and increasing Shell’s interest in the Atapu field from 4.3% to 16.7%.
In December 2022, Shell placed a successful bid in the ANP’s 
Permanent Offer PSC bid round for the acquisition of 40% of the 
Sudoeste de Sagitário block in the Santos Basin and is awaiting 
ratification.
Rest of South America
Shell also has interests in Suriname and Uruguay. 
Trading and supply
Shell markets and trades crude oil from most of its Upstream 
operations. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Upstream continued
51 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
51
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Oil and gas information
 Proved developed and undeveloped reserves of Shell subsidiaries and Shell share of joint ventures and associates
 
Crude oil and 
natural gas liquids
(million barrels)
Synthetic crude oil
(million barrels)
Natural gas
(thousand million scf)
Total 
(million boe)[A]
Shell subsidiaries
Increase/(decrease) in 2022:
Revisions and reclassifications 137 (25) (31) 107
Improved recovery 32 — — 32
Extensions and discoveries 61 — 1,270 280
Purchases and sales of minerals in place 66 240 662 420
Total before taking production into account 296 215 1,901 839
Production [B] (504) (17) (2,648) (978)
Total (208) 198 (747) (139)
At January 1, 2022 3,820 533 23,795 8,456
At December 31, 2022 3,612 731 23,048 8,317
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
Increase/(decrease) in 2022:
Revisions and reclassifications (25) — (733) (152)
Improved recovery — — — —
Extensions and discoveries 4 — 80 18
Purchases and sales of minerals in place 159 — 2,549 599
Total before taking production into account 138 — 1,896 465
Production [C] (29) — (486) (113)
Total 109 — 1,410 352
At January 1, 2022 228 — 3,949 909
At December 31, 2022 337 — 5,359 1,261
Total — — — —
Increase/(decrease) before taking production into account 434 215 3,797 1,304
Production (533) (17) (3,134) (1,091)
Increase/(decrease) (99) 198 663 213
At January 1, 2022 4,048 533 27,744 9,365
At December 31, 2022 3,949 731 28,407 9,578
Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in Shell subsidiaries at 
December 31, 2022 — 365 — 365
[A] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 standard cubic feet (scf) per barrel. 
[B] Included 40 million boe consumed in operations (natural gas: 228 thousand million scf; synthetic crude oil: 1 million barrels). 
[C] Included 5 million boe consumed in operations (natural gas: 31 thousand million scf). 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value
52 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
52
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Proved reserves
The proved oil and gas reserves of Shell subsidiaries and the Shell 
share of the proved oil and gas reserves of joint ventures and 
associates are set out in more detail in "Supplementary Information
– Oil and Gas (unaudited)" on pages 308-326.
Before taking production into account, our proved reserves increased 
by 1,304 million boe in 2022. This consisted of an increase of
839 million boe from Shell subsidiaries and an increase of 465 million 
boe from the Shell share of joint ventures and associates. After taking 
production into account, our proved reserves increased by 213 million 
boe in 2022 to 9,578 million boe at December 31, 2022.
Shell subsidiaries
Before taking production into account, Shell subsidiaries’ proved 
reserves increased by 839 million boe in 2022. This consisted of an 
increase of 296 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids, 
an increase of 328 million boe (1,901 thousand million scf) of natural 
gas and an increase of 215 million barrels of synthetic crude oil. 
The 839 million boe increase is the net effect of a net increase 
of 107 million boe from revisions and reclassifications, an increase 
of 280 million boe from extensions and discoveries, an increase 
of 32 million boe from improved recovery, and a net increase of 
420 million boe related to purchases and sales of minerals in place.
After taking into account production of 978 million boe (of which 40 
million boe were consumed in operations), Shell subsidiaries’ proved 
reserves decreased by 139 million boe in 2022 to 8,317 million boe. 
In 2022, Shell's subsidiaries proved developed reserves (PD) 
decreased by 519 million boe to 6,221 million boe and proved 
undeveloped reserves (PUD) increased by 380 million boe to 
2,096 million boe. 
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
Before taking production into account, the Shell share of joint ventures 
and associates’ proved reserves increased by 465 million boe in 2022. 
This consisted of an increase of 138 million barrels of crude oil and 
natural gas liquids and an increase of 327 million boe (1,896 thousand 
million scf) of natural gas. The 465 million boe increase comprised 
a net decrease of 152 million boe from revisions and reclassifications, 
an increase of 18 million boe from extensions and discoveries and 
an increase of 599 million boe from purchase of minerals in place.
After taking into account production of 113 million boe (of which 
5 million boe were consumed in operations), the Shell share 
of joint ventures and associates’ proved reserves increased 
by 352 million boe to 1,261 million boe at December 31, 2022.
The Shell share of joint ventures and associates’ proved developed 
reserves (PD) decreased by 193 million boe to 608 million boe, and 
proved undeveloped reserves (PUD) increased by 545 million boe 
to 653 million boe. 
For further information, see "Supplementary Information - oil and gas 
(unaudited)" on pages 308-326.
Proved undeveloped reserves
In 2022, Shell subsidiaries and the Shell share of joint ventures and 
associates’ PUD increased by 925 million boe to 2,749 million boe. 
There were decreases of 331 million boe as a result of maturation to 
PD, mainly 39 million boe in Mero (Brazil), 31 million boe in Pierce 
(UK), and 261 million boe spread across other fields. This was a 
decrease of 116 million boe as a result of revisions, reclassifications and 
entitlement changes, which were mainly because of the de-recognition 
of reserves in Russia and de-maturation of some PUD wells in British 
Columbia, Canada, after regulator authorisations were suspended 
in 2022. These were offset by an increase of 301 million as a result 
of de-maturation of PD to PUD, mainly due to 262 million boe in 
Kashagan (Kazakhstan), where a new slug catcher needs to be 
installed, an increase of 32 million boe due to improved recovery, 
a net increase of 741 million boe due to purchases and sales of 
minerals in place and a net increase of 298 million boe due to 
extensions and discoveries, mainly due to 102 million boe in 
Crux (Australia), 78 million boe in Marjoram (Malaysia), and 
118 million boe spread across other fields. 
In addition to the maturation of 331 million boe from PUD to PD,
126 million boe was matured to PD from contingent resources through 
PUD as a result of project execution during the year.
PUD held for five years or more (PUD5+) at December 31, 2022, 
amounted to 156 million boe, a decrease of 82 million boe compared 
with the end of 2021. The decrease in PUD5+ during 2022 was driven 
mainly by changes in Lunskoye (Russia) and Kolo Creek (Nigeria).
The fields with the largest PUD5+ on December 31, 2022, were 
Gorgon (Australia) and Tupi (Brazil). These PUD5+ remain 
undeveloped because of the complexity and scale of the project 
(Australia) or because ongoing development requires the ongoing 
drilling of additional wells (Brazil).
During 2022, we spent 
$5.8 billion on development activities related 
to PUD maturation. 
Delivery commitments
We sell crude oil and natural gas from our producing operations under 
a variety of contractual obligations. Most contracts generally commit 
us to sell quantities based on production from specified properties, 
although some natural gas sales contracts specify delivery of fixed 
and determinable quantities, as discussed below. 
In the past three years, we met our contractual delivery commitments, 
with the notable exceptions of Egypt, Trinidad and Tobago, and 
Malaysia. In the period 2023-2025, we are contractually committed 
to deliver to third parties, joint ventures and associates a total of 
5,870 billion scf of natural gas from our subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates. The sales contracts contain a mixture of fixed and 
variable pricing formulae that are generally referenced to the 
prevailing market price for crude oil, natural gas or other petroleum 
products at the time of delivery. 
In the period 2023-2025, we expect to meet our delivery commitments 
for almost all the areas in which they are carried, with an estimated 
71% coming from PD, 5% through the delivery of gas that becomes 
available to us from paying royalties in cash, and 24% from the 
development of PUD as well as other new projects and purchases.
The key exceptions are:
▪ In Egypt, the expected shortfall of 491 billion scf (85% of the 
promised gas delivery) for the 2023-2025 period is mainly caused 
by the performance of the West Delta Deep Marine fields being 
insufficient to meet the committed quantities to ELNG. If the 
government divert more gas to the domestic market, this would 
increase the shortfall. 
▪ In Trinidad and Tobago (North Coast Marine Area), we expect to 
cover 77% of our delivery commitments from existing developed 
resource volumes and new projects, resulting in an expected true 
shortfall of some 62 billion scf. 
▪ In Malaysia, one of the third-party gas supply lines which was under 
maintenance has not been repaired during 2022. Force majeure has 
been declared, and no penalties have been incurred, resulting in an 
expected true shortfall of some 77 billion scf (64% of the promised 
gas delivery).
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued
53 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
53
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Summary of proved oil and gas reserves of Shell subsidiaries and Shell share of joint ventures and associates 
(at December 31, 2022) 
 
Based on average prices for 2022
Crude oil and 
natural gas liquids 
(million barrels)
Natural gas 
(thousand million scf)
Synthetic crude oil 
(million barrels)
Total (million 
boe)[A]
Proved developed
Europe 143 2,635 — 597
Asia 1,153 8,959 — 2,698
Oceania 73 4,240 — 804
Africa 187 984 — 356
North America
USA 356 275 — 404
Canada 3 712 731 857
South America 838 1,589 — 1,113
Total proved developed 2,753 19,394 731 6,829
Proved undeveloped
Europe 52 424 — 125
Asia 585 5,127 — 1,469
Oceania 33 1,878 — 356
Africa 31 857 — 179
North America
USA 187 246 — 229
Canada 1 244 — 43
South America 307 237 — 348
Total proved undeveloped 1,196 9,013 — 2,749
Total proved developed and undeveloped
Europe 195 3,059 — 722
Asia 1,738 14,086 — 4,167
Oceania 106 6,118 — 1,160
Africa 218 1,841 — 535
North America
USA 543 521 — 633
Canada 4 956 731 900
South America 1,145 1,826 — 1,461
Total 3,949 28,407 731 9,578
Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in Shell subsidiaries 365 365
[A] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued
54 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
54
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Exploration
Shell's exploration team searches for crude oil and gas, both onshore 
and offshore. Exploration may result in discoveries of oil and gas that 
we can develop, helping maintain energy security and contributing to 
our Powering Progress strategy.
In 2022, producible hydrocarbons were encountered in Malaysia, the 
UK and the Gulf of Mexico. Hydrocarbons were also encountered in 
Namibia and further appraisal is being undertaken to determine 
producibility. 
Gulf of Mexico 
In 2022, Shell acquired 20 blocks in the Gulf of Mexico in Lease Sale 
257. We relinquished a lease for one block ahead of expiration.
Brazil
In 2022, the Brazilian government ratified 11 Santos Basin blocks. 
Shell secured five blocks in the 2021 17th National Petroleum Agency 
Bid-Round and the remaining six in the 2022 3rd Permanent Offer 
Concession Bid-Round (Shell interest 70% in seven of them, 100% in 
the remaining four, operator in all cases). We also secured one 
Santos block in 2022 1st Production Sharing Permanent Offer Bid-
Round in Brazil (Shell interest 40%, non-operated), which is awaiting 
government ratification.
Malaysia 
In 2022, Shell relinquished one non-operated Sabah block (Shell 
interest 50%). We signed three exploration PSCs for the offshore 
Sarawak and Sabah blocks (Shell interest 92.5% in two Sarawak 
blocks, 50% in two Sabah blocks, operator). We also signed an 
exploration PSC for another non-operated Sabah block (Shell 
interest 25.1%).
UK
In 2022, Shell farmed into three exploration licences in the UK’s 
southern North Sea area (Shell interest 50%, non-operated).
New frontiers
In June 2022, Shell secured two blocks in the Open Uruguay Round, 
which are awaiting government ratification (Shell interest 100%, 
operator).
In September 2022, we took over an additional 50% participating 
interest in two operated blocks offshore Sao Tome and Principe, 
after the withdrawal of a partner, giving us a total interest of 85% 
in both blocks. 
In December 2022, we completed the farm-out of a 45% non-operated 
participating interest in a deep-water exploration licence off the 
Western Cape of South Africa. 
 
For further information, see "Supplementary Information - oil and gas 
(unaudited)" on pages 308-326.
Location of oil and gas exploration and production 
activities
 
Location of oil and gas exploration and production 
activities [A] (at December 31, 2022)
 
Exploration
Development 
and/or 
Production
Shell 
operator [B]
Europe
Albania ● ● ●
Cyprus ●
Germany ●
Italy ●
Netherlands ● ● ●
Norway ● ● ●
UK ● ● ●
Asia
Brunei ● ● ●
China ● ●
Indonesia ●
Kazakhstan ●
Malaysia ● ● ●
Oman ● ● ●
Qatar ● ●
Oceania
Australia ● ● ●
Africa
Egypt ● ● ●
Mauritania ● ●
Namibia ● ●
Nigeria ● ● ●
Sao Tome and Principe ● ●
South Africa ● ●
Tanzania ● ●
Tunisia ● ●
North America
Mexico ● ●
USA ● ● ●
Canada ● ● ●
South America
Argentina ● ● ●
Barbados ●
Bolivia ●
Brazil ● ● ●
Colombia ● ● ●
Suriname ● ●
Trinidad and Tobago ● ● ●
Uruguay ● ●
[A] Includes joint ventures and associates. Where a joint venture or an associate has 
properties outside its base country, those properties are not shown in this table. 
[B] In several countries where "Shell operator" is indicated, Shell is the operator of some 
but not all exploration and/or production ventures.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued
55 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
55
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Oil and gas production available for sale
 Crude oil and natural gas liquids [A]
 
Thousand barrels
2022 2021 2020
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Europe
Italy  9,091  —  9,677  —  11,342  — 
UK  23,905  —  25,554  —  30,061  — 
Other [B]  3,722  621  5,456  1,205  7,523  1,084 
Total Europe  36,718  621  40,687  1,205  48,926  1,084 
Asia
Brunei  3,256  16,282  1,076  17,894  387  17,094 
Kazakhstan  29,667  —  35,592  —  37,769  — 
Malaysia  16,759  —  17,983  —  18,494  — 
Oman  82,006  —  78,745  —  74,854  — 
Russia  10,955  1,963  21,012  7,769  20,816  9,050 
Other [B]  24,965  7,498  30,061  7,548  30,101  7,629 
Total Asia  167,608  25,743  184,469  33,211  182,421  33,773 
Total Oceania [B]  9,391  —  11,844  —  7,416  — 
Africa
Nigeria  27,554  —  35,911  —  48,620  — 
Other [B]  1,855  —  5,540  —  8,485  — 
Total Africa  29,409  —  41,451  —  57,105  — 
North America
USA  121,690  —  164,811  —  165,169  — 
Canada  687  —  2,640  —  8,128  — 
Total North America  122,377  —  167,451  —  173,297  — 
South America
Argentina  9,023  2,587  4,836  1,566  3,371  729 
Brazil  127,862  —  126,566  —  131,339  — 
Other [B]  1,583  —  1,620  —  1,701  — 
Total South America  138,468  2,587  133,022  1,566  136,411  729 
Total  503,971  28,951  578,924  35,982  605,576  35,586 
[A] Reflects 100% of production of subsidiaries except in respect of production-sharing contracts (PSCs), where the figures shown represent the entitlement of the subsidiaries concerned under 
those contracts. 
[B] Comprises countries where production was lower than 10,100 thousand barrels or where specific disclosures are prohibited. 
 Synthetic crude oil
Thousand barrels
2022 2021 2020
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
North America - Canada  16,949  19,891  18,920 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued
56 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
56
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Natural gas [A]
 
Million standard cubic feet
2022 2021 2020
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Europe
Netherlands  —  133,210  —  159,107  —  131,648 
Norway  174,523  —  178,577  —  187,627  — 
UK  69,647  —  49,128  —  65,012  — 
Other [B]  45,159  —  47,127  —  48,923  — 
Total Europe  289,329  133,210  274,832  159,107  301,562  131,648 
Asia
Brunei  15,328  138,007  17,989  147,865  21,025  159,846 
China  56,008  —  55,967  —  46,750  — 
Kazakhstan  57,932  —  72,176  —  86,999  — 
Malaysia  200,249  —  193,871  —  226,791  — 
Russia  2,085  37,897  4,113  125,973  4,301  142,418 
Other [B]  378,313  118,435  447,743  118,397  452,528  118,153 
Total Asia  709,915  294,339  791,859  392,235  838,394  420,417 
Oceania
Australia  693,293  22,577  696,562  19,272  633,580  20,646 
Total Oceania  693,293  22,577  696,562  19,272  633,580  20,646 
Africa
Egypt  49,618  —  86,348  —  104,946  — 
Nigeria  118,032  —  161,916  —  190,982  — 
Other [B]  11,966  —  23,473  —  27,438  — 
Total Africa  179,616  —  271,737  —  323,366  — 
North America
USA  112,560  —  198,578  —  255,383  — 
Canada  122,753  —  116,423  —  164,451  — 
Total North America  235,313  —  315,001  —  419,834  — 
South America
Bolivia  40,360  —  45,214  —  45,015  — 
Brazil  73,975  —  72,107  —  73,914  — 
Trinidad and Tobago  186,150  —  121,411  —  141,576  — 
Other [B]  12,912  2,227  11,006  393  9,609  830 
Total South America  313,397  2,227  249,738  393  270,114  830 
Total  2,420,863  452,353  2,599,729  571,007  2,786,850  573,541 
[A] Reflects 100% of production of subsidiaries except in respect of PSCs, where the figures shown represent the entitlement of the subsidiaries concerned under those contracts. 
[B] Comprises countries where production was lower than 41,795 million scf or where specific disclosures are prohibited. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued
57 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
57
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Average realised price by geographical area
 Crude oil and natural gas liquids 
$/barrel
2022 2021 2020
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Europe  94.52  91.26  68.30  64.18  39.51  39.05 
Asia  88.69  100.81  63.82  70.09  38.73  42.51 
Oceania  78.37  —  63.56  —  21.29  — 
Africa  104.84  —  70.89  —  41.23  — 
North America - USA  92.89  —  62.75  —  34.17  — 
North America - Canada  62.10  —  46.58  —  27.17  — 
South America  85.84  71.21  64.28  56.91  36.01  37.28 
Total  90.06  97.80  64.28  69.34  36.72  42.31 
 Synthetic crude oil
$/barrel
2022 2021 2020
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
North America - Canada  86.93  60.11  31.13 
 Natural gas
 
$/thousand scf
2022 2021 2020
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Europe  27.24  26.87  10.71  9.86  3.66  3.76 
Asia  3.74  10.88  2.54  6.91  1.88 [A]  4.19 
Oceania  13.21  6.75  7.74  4.04  5.95 [A]  3.15 
Africa  7.08  —  3.43  —  2.55  — 
North America - USA  8.46  —  4.40  —  1.72  — 
North America - Canada  4.08  —  2.70  —  1.61  — 
South America  8.71  3.90  4.04  1.82  1.35  1.90 
Total  10.88  14.56  5.39  7.60  2.99 [A]  4.06 
[A] As revised, following a reassessment.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued
58 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
58
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Average production cost by geographical area
 Crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas [A]
 
$/boe
2022 2021 2020
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share of
joint ventures
and associates
Europe  24.83  12.25  21.48  8.59  20.05  11.44 
Asia  6.75  8.06  5.66  7.64  5.54  6.83 
Oceania  10.32  24.97  9.26  24.68  8.92  20.23 
Africa  13.66  —  11.47  —  9.43  — 
North America - USA  11.03  —  10.88  —  12.50  — 
North America - Canada  11.15  —  10.64  —  10.52  — 
South America  6.91  7.74  5.80  5.51  5.18  9.18 
Total  10.20  9.59  9.12  8.23  9.10  8.02 
[A] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.
 Synthetic crude oil
$/barrel
2022 2021 2020
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell
subsidiaries
North America - Canada  23.05  18.87  18.28 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Oil and gas information continued
59 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
59
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Marketing
Marketing comprises Mobility, Lubricants, and 
Sectors and Decarbonisation activities. Mobility 
operates Shell's retail network, including electric 
vehicle charging services. Lubricants produces, 
markets and sells lubricants for road transport, and 
for machinery used in manufacturing, mining, power 
generation, agriculture and construction. Sectors 
and Decarbonisation sells fuels, and speciality 
products and services, including energy solutions 
that help customers reduce emissions in the 
aviation, marine, commercial road transport 
and agricultural sectors, among others.
Segment earnings ($ billion)
2.1 2021: 3.5
Adjusted Earnings ($ billion)
2.8 2021: 3.5
Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion)
2.4 2021: 5.0
Marketing sales volumes (thousand b/d)
2,503 2021: 2,433
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value
60 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
60
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Key statistics [A]
 
$ million, except where indicated
2022 2021 2020
Segment earnings [B]  2,133  3,535  4,081 
Including:
Revenue (including inter-segment sales)  121,243  83,748  55,997 
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates  237  385  491 
Interest and other income  (104)  278  143 
Operating expenses [C]  8,384  7,501  6,305 
Underlying operating expenses [C]  8,281  7,366  6,161 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  1,900  1,700  1,499 
Taxation charge/(credit)  903  903  846 
Identified Items [C]  (622)  68  13 
Adjusted Earnings [C]  2,754  3,468  4,068 
Adjusted EBITDA (CCS basis) [C]  5,324  6,021  6,455 
Capital expenditure  4,527  2,122  1,684 
Cash capital expenditure [C]  4,831  2,273  1,774 
Marketing sales volumes (thousand b/d)  2,503  2,433  2,276 
[A] With effect from January 1, 2022, our reporting segments are Integrated Gas, Upstream, Marketing, Chemicals and Products, Renewables and Energy Solutions and Corporate. Comparative 
information has been revised.
[B] See Note 8 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 265-269. Segment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. 
[C] See "Non-GAAP measures reconciliations" on pages 362-365.
Business conditions
For the business conditions relevant to Marketing, see "Market 
overview" on pages 35-37.
Marketing sales 
In 2022, Marketing sales volumes were 2,503 thousand barrels of 
oil per day (TBL/day), which was 3% higher than 2021 sales volumes 
of 2,433 TBL/day mainly as a result of demand recovery in aviation 
(within Sectors and Decarbonisation).
Earnings 2022-2021
Segment earnings in 2022 of $2,133 million were 40% lower than
in 2021. This was driven by higher operating expenses($704 million) 
partly offset by higher marketing margins ($171 million).
Segment earnings in 2022 included a net charge of $622 million, 
comprising:
▪ impairment charges of $321 million (mainly related to withdrawal 
from Russian oil and gas activities);
▪ net loss from sale of assets of $135 million (mainly related to the 
withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities, partly offset by a gain 
on the revaluation of the existing 50% share of the Texas Petroleum 
Group following the acquisition of the remaining 50% share); and
▪ provisions for onerous contracts of $62 million.
These net losses are part of identified items and compare with 
2021 which included a net gain of $68 million as follows:
▪ net gain from disposal of assets of $290 million (mainly related
to the dilution of interest in the Raizen joint venture); 
▪ redundancy and restructuring costs of $109 million (mainly the 
cost of Reshape 2020-2021); and
▪ impairment charges of $106 million (goodwill impairment on 
acquisitions of Ubitricity and Multi Service Commercial Road 
Transport card platform). 
Adjusted Earnings compared with 2021 decreased by $714 million, 
driven by the following: 
▪ Mobility adjusted earnings were $469 million lower than in 2021, 
mainly as a result of higher operating expenses and unfavourable 
tax movements. This was partly offset by better margins. 
▪ Lubricants adjusted earnings were $266 million lower than in 
2021, mainly because of lower margins due to a higher base 
oil price, lower associate and joint-venture income and higher 
operating expenses.
▪ Sectors and Decarbonisation adjusted earnings were $21 million 
higher than in 2021, mainly because of better margins (demand 
recovery in aviation). This was partly offset by higher operating 
expenses and higher financing expenses in joint ventures.
Earnings 2021-2020
Segment earnings in 2021 of $3,535 million were 13% lower than 
in 2020. This was driven by higher operating expenses, partly offset 
by higher volumes.
Segment earnings in 2021 included a net gain of $68 million as 
described above. This net gain is part of identified items and compares 
with 2020 which included a net gain of $13 million as follows:
▪ net gains of $132 million on sale of assets, mainly related to the 
acquisition of the remaining 51% equity shares from a joint-venture 
partner in China;
▪ restructuring costs of $90 million (various initiatives across the 
Marketing segment); and 
▪ impairment charges of $33 million.
Adjusted Earnings compared with 2020 decreased by $600 million, 
driven by the same factors as the segment earnings adjusted for 
identified items.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Marketing continued
61 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
61
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Cash capital expenditure 
Cash capital expenditure was $4.8 billion in 2022, of which 
$1.5 billion was in non-energy products and $1.4 billion in low-carbon 
energy solutions. Cash capital expenditure was $2.3 billion in 2021, 
of which $0.7 billion was in non-energy products and $0.5 billion 
in low-carbon energy solutions. 
Cash capital expenditure increased by $2.5 billion, because of 
higher spend on business acquisitions across Marketing (including 
the acquisition of certain company-owned fuel and convenience 
retail sites from the Landmark group of companies in the USA, and 
the acquisition of EcoOils Limited in Singapore). Our cash capital 
expenditure is expected to be around $6 billion in 2023.
Portfolio and business developments
Significant portfolio and business developments in 2022 included:
▪ In May 2022, we completed the sale of Shell Neft LLC, Shell’s 
retail stations and lubricants business in Russia, to PJSC LUKOIL. 
See Note 6 on pages 262-264 for more information.
▪ In June 2022, we completed the acquisition of 184 company-owned 
fuel and convenience retail sites and 107 supply agreements for the 
independently operated retail fuel and convenience retail sites from 
the Landmark group of companies in the USA. The agreement to 
acquire the retail fuel station network (including fuel stations, 
convenience retail and dealer supply agreements) was signed 
in October 2021. 
▪ In December 2022, we completed the acquisition of the 
Environmentally Considerate Lubricants (ECLs) business of the 
PANOLIN Group. The transaction includes the PANOLIN brand, ECL 
product formulations, intellectual property, technical expertise and 
technology, international customer base and portfolio of products. 
▪ In February 2023, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the 
shares of Nature Energy Biogas A/S for nearly $2 billion.
Building integrated renewable natural gas 
(RNG) value chain at global scale
On February 20, 2023, Shell announced it had completed the 
acquisition of Denmark-based Nature Energy, Europe’s largest 
producer of renewable natural gas (RNG) from biomass, for 
around $2 billion. The acquisition, which was announced in 
November 2022, helps accelerate our transition to become 
a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050 by offering our 
customers low-carbon fuels, which can help them decarbonise.
Nature Energy produces RNG from agricultural, industrial, 
and household waste. It has 14 operating plants and 
established supply infrastructure. The company produced 
around 6.5 million MMBtu in 2022 and has around 30 
new plant projects in Europe and North America which 
could deliver up to 9.2 million MMBtu/year by 2030.
RNG, also known as biogas or biomethane, is chemically 
identical to conventional natural gas and can be used in our 
existing transmission and distribution infrastructure. This makes 
it a competitive option to help decarbonise hard-to-abate 
sectors, including commercial road transport, shipping, 
heating and heavy industry. The sustainability benefits are 
amplified by the processing and use of methane that would 
otherwise be released to the atmosphere from the 
decomposition of organic byproducts and waste.
Shell’s Powering Progress strategy seeks to deliver affordable, 
reliable, low-carbon energy to our customers.
Photos: A truck has delivered manure to Nature Energy’s Korskro plant, in the 
southwest of Jutland, near the Danish city of Esbjerg. Nature Energy converts waste, 
like manure, into renewable natural gas.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Marketing continued
62 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
62
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Business and property
Mobility
Shell is one of the world’s largest mobility retailers, by number of sites, 
with more than 46,000 Shell-branded mobility locations in more than 
80 markets at the end of 2022. We operate different models across 
these markets, from full ownership of retail sites through to brand 
licensing agreements. 
Every day, around 32 million customers visit our mobility locations for 
an evolving range of quality fuels, including electric vehicle charging, 
and convenience and non-fuel products and services. We offer our 
business customers Shell Fleet Solutions, through which they can obtain 
items including fuel cards, road services and carbon-offset offers. 
Beyond our mobility locations, we also serve electric vehicle customers 
at their homes and workplaces through Shell Recharge Solutions, and 
at on-street locations through Ubitricity. 
In addition to fuels, we are expanding our convenience and non-fuel 
retail offer to cater to more of our customers’ needs. At many of our 
sites, we offer a range of convenience items, including beverages 
and fresh food, and services such as lubricant changes and car 
washes. At the end of 2022, Shell operated 12,500 convenience 
stores worldwide and we expect to grow this number to 15,000, 
including Shell-branded mobility locations by 2025. We have 
upgraded more than 1,500 stores with our Shell Café premium 
fresh coffee and food offer since launching in 2021.
We remain committed to developing traditional fuels for drivers of 
internal combustion engine vehicles. Aided by our partnership with 
Scuderia Ferrari, we have concentrated on developing fuels with 
special formulations designed to clean engines and improve 
performance. In 2022, we launched a new and improved formulation 
of Shell V-Power across multiple markets, with further roll-out planned 
for 2023. We sold fuels under the Shell V-Power brand in 69 markets 
in 2022. 
We are also expanding networks of refuelling stations of lower-
emission fuels, including biofuels, hydrogen, and various gaseous fuels 
such as LNG and bio-LNG. We have more than 50 hydrogen retail 
sites in Europe and North America, where drivers can fill up their 
vehicles with hydrogen fuel. In nine markets, Shell Mobility provides 
customers with the opportunity to compensate their carbon emissions, 
including through carbon credits.
Shell Mobility aims to take a leadership position in the energy 
transition by marketing more and cleaner fuels for our customers. 
At the end of 2022, Shell owned or operated around 139,000 charge 
points, including more than 28,000 charge points at Shell forecourts, 
on-street locations, mobility hubs and destinations like supermarkets.
In January 2022, Shell opened its first electric vehicle charging hub
in the UK in Fulham, London, where petrol and diesel pumps at an 
existing fuel station have been replaced with charge points. Shell 
Fulham features nine high-powered, ultra-rapid 175 kW charge points.
Lubricants
Shell Lubricants has been the number one global finished lubricants 
supplier in terms of market share for 16 consecutive years, according 
to Kline & Company data for 2021. Shell lubricants are available 
across more than 160 markets for passenger cars, motorcycles, 
trucks, coaches, and machinery used in manufacturing, mining, 
power generation, agriculture and construction. 
We also make premium lubricants for conventional vehicles and Shell
E-fluids for electric vehicles using gas-to-liquids (GTL) base oils that are 
made from natural gas at our Pearl GTL plant in Qatar.
 
See "Integrated Gas" on page 43. 
We have a global lubricants supply chain with a network of 32 
blending plants, four base oil plants, ten grease plants and six GTL 
base oil storage hubs.
Through our marine activities, we primarily provide the shipping 
and maritime sectors with lubricants. We also provide fuels, chemical 
products, and related technical and digital services. We supply 
more than 200 grades of lubricants and seven types of fuel to vessels 
worldwide, ranging from large ocean-going tankers to small fishing 
boats. Shell marine lubricant products are currently used in more 
than 10,000 vessels and are available in over 700 ports across 
more than 60 countries. 
Sectors and Decarbonisation
Sectors and Decarbonisation sells fuels, speciality products and 
services including energy solutions that help customers reduce 
emissions in the aviation, marine, commercial road transport, 
and agricultural sectors, among others. 
Shell Aviation provides aviation fuel, lubricants and low-carbon 
solutions globally. In February 2022, Shell became the first supplier
of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) to customers in Singapore. Together 
with Accenture and American Express Global Business Travel (Amex 
GBT), Shell launched Avelia - one of the world’s first blockchain-
powered digital sustainable aviation fuel book-and-claim solutions for 
business travel. Avelia is designed to help trigger demand for SAF, 
providing confidence to suppliers like us to further increase investment 
in production, and in turn lowering the price point for these fuels.
Shell Marine offers a portfolio of marine fuels, lubricants and low-
carbon solutions, with a supply network that covers key bunkering 
locations globally. 
Shell is investing in a variety of fuels, technologies and solutions to 
support a decarbonised future for shipping. In June 2022, Shell and 
CMA CGM signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding to 
support the advancement of low-carbon marine fuels and innovative 
technical solutions, alongside a multi-year LNG supply agreement 
in the Port of Singapore from the second half of 2023.
Shell Commercial Road Transport provides fuels, lubricants and 
digital services to customers with heavy-duty vehicles in their fleets. 
In 2022, Shell expanded its LNG refuelling network to more than 
60 operated sites, bringing the number of sites where Shell customers 
can access LNG in Europe to more than 160. In February 2022, Shell 
became the first fuel provider to offer customers in the Netherlands a 
blended product, by feeding a portion of Shell BioLNG into its entire 
LNG network.
Shell Bitumen supplies customers across 60 markets and provides 
enough bitumen to resurface 500 kilometres of road lanes every 
day. It also invests in research and development to create 
innovative products. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Marketing continued
63 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
63
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Shell Sulphur Solutions manages the complete value chain of 
sulphur, from refining to marketing. It provides sulphur for use 
in applications such as fertiliser, mining and chemicals. It also 
licenses Shell Thiogro technologies to create innovative and 
custom sulphur-enhanced fertilisers. 
In 2022, around 9.5 billion litres of biofuels (2021: 9.1 billion litres) 
went into Shell's fuels worldwide, which includes sales made by 
Raízen, our non-operated joint venture in Brazil (Shell interest 44%).
In 2022, Raízen produced around 3 billion litres of ethanol (2021: 2.5 
billion litres) and around 4.8 million tonnes of sugar from sugar cane 
(2021: 4 million tonnes). The cellulosic ethanol plant at Raízen's Costa 
Pinto mill in Brazil produced 26 million litres of ethanol in 2022 (2021: 
19 million litres).
Renewable natural gas (RNG), also known as biogas or biomethane, is 
gas derived from processing organic waste in a controlled environment 
until it is fully interchangeable with conventional natural gas. 
Shell is constructing two facilities which will convert dairy manure 
to RNG and which will be co-located at the Bettencourt Dairies in 
Wendell, Idaho, USA. Once operational, Shell Downstream Bovarius 
is expected to produce approximately 400,000 MMBtu a year of 
negative-carbon-intensity RNG. The second facility, Shell Downstream 
Friesian, is expected to produce approximately 350,000 MMBtu a 
year of negative-carbon-intensity RNG using cow manure from the 
dairy once operational. 
In Europe, we are offering liquefied renewable natural gas
(b
io-LNG) to customers with trucks powered by natural gas. In 2022, 
in collaboration with Nordsol, we commenced production at our first 
European bio-LNG plant, in Amsterdam Westpoort, in the Netherlands. 
This made us the first fuel provider to offer a blend of bio-LNG 
throughout the entire LNG network in the Netherlands. We also began 
construction of a bio-LNG plant at our Energy and Chemicals Park 
Rheinland, scheduled to commence operations in 2023.
Business activities with Syria and Cuba 
Syria
We ceased all operations in Syria in 2011. In 2022, we renewed 
our trademark rights in Syria and paid $381 to the Syrian Arab 
Republic Ministry of Finance, and $783 in agent and handling fees. 
The renewal of the trademark rights is not indicative of any sales 
of products in Syria.
Cuba
We do not have any operations in Cuba.
Marketing data tables 
 Branded retail sites [A]
 
2022 2021 2020
Europe  8,260  8,178  8,071 
Asia [B]  10,470  10,753  10,387 
Oceania [B]  1,083  1,060  1,071 
Africa  2,815  2,724  2,622 
Americas [C]  23,597  23,305  23,461 
Total  46,225  46,020  45,612 
[A] Includes different models, from full-ownership retail sites, and sites operated by joint 
ventures, through to brand licensing agreements, and excludes sites closed for more 
than six months.
[B] Asia includes Turkey and Russia; Oceania includes French Polynesia, Guam, Palau and 
New Caledonia.
[C] Includes around 7,900 retail sites operated by the Raizen joint venture.
 Marketing sales volumes [A][B][C][D]
 
Thousand b/d
2022 2021 2020
Europe
Mobility  296  360  344 
Lubricants  17  16  15 
Sectors & Decarbonisation  238  121  107 
Total  551  497  466 
Asia
Mobility  520  512  475 
Lubricants  38  42  30 
Sectors & Decarbonisation  124  107  111 
Total  682  661  616 
Africa
Mobility  47  45  40 
Lubricants  3  3  3 
Sectors & Decarbonisation  8  7  7 
Total  58  55  50 
Americas
Mobility  797  828  782 
Lubricants  25  24  23 
Sectors & Decarbonisation  390  368  339 
Total  1,212  1,220  1,144 
Total product sales 
Mobility  1,660  1,745  1,641 
Lubricants  83  85  71 
Sectors & Decarbonisation  760  603  564 
Total  2,503  2,433  2,276 
Gasolines  1,160  1,165  1,090 
Kerosines  321  232  214 
Gas/Diesel oils  731  746  698 
Fuel oil  11  7  8 
Other products  280  283  266 
Total  2,503  2,433  2,276 
[A] With effect from January 1, 2022, the Marketing segment consists of Mobility, Lubricants, 
and Sectors and Decarbonisation. Comparative sales volumes have been revised for these 
businesses, with the exception of the Commercial Road Transport sector, which transferred 
from Mobility to Sectors and Decarbonisation with effect from January 1, 2022, but where 
comparative information is not revised due to impracticability. 
[B] Excludes deliveries to other companies under reciprocal sale and purchase arrangements, 
that are in the nature of exchange contracts.
[C] Includes the Shell share of Raízen’s sales volumes and joint ventures' sales volumes.
[D] Sales volumes from markets where Shell operates under trademark licensing agreements 
are excluded. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Marketing continued
64 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
64
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Chemicals and Products
Chemicals and Products includes chemicals 
manufacturing plants with their own marketing 
network, and refineries which turn crude oil and 
other feedstocks into a range of oil products. 
These are moved and marketed around the 
world
 for domestic, industrial and transport use. 
The business also includes pipelines, trading of 
crude oil, oil products and petrochemicals, and 
oil
 sands activities, which involves the extraction 
of bitumen from mined oil sands and its conversion 
into synthetic oil.
Segment earnings ($ billion)
4.5 2021: 0.4
Adjusted Earnings ($ billion)
4.7 2021: 2.1
Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion)
12.9 2021: 3.7
Refinery processing intake (thousand b/d)
1,402 2021: 1,639
Refining & Trading sales volumes (thousand b/d)
1,700 2021: 2,026
Chemicals sales volumes (thousand tonnes)
12,281 2021: 14,216
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value
65 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
65
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Key statistics [A]
 
$ million, except where indicated
2022 2021 2020
Segment earnings/(loss) [B]  4,515  404  (3,821) 
Including:
Revenue (including inter-segment sales)  147,026  118,338  85,713 
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates  374  989  1,064 
Interest and other income  244  37  (236) 
Operating expenses [C]  11,361  10,347  10,514 
Underlying operating expenses [C]  11,368  10,298  9,916 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  3,289  5,485  10,096 
Taxation charge/(credit)  935  (210)  (1,754) 
Identified Items [C]  (204)  (1,712)  (6,656) 
Adjusted Earnings [C]  4,719  2,115  2,835 
Adjusted EBITDA [C]  8,561  5,635  6,032 
Capital expenditure  3,835  5,091  4,163 
Cash capital expenditure [C]  3,838  5,175  4,198 
Chemicals manufacturing plant utilisation (%)  7 9  %  8 5  %  8 8  %
Refinery utilisation (%)  8 6  %  8 0  %  8 3  %
Refinery processing intake (thousand b/d) 1,402 1,639 2,063
Refining & Trading sales volumes (thousand b/d)  1,700  2,026 2,434
Chemicals sales volumes (thousands tonnes)  12,281  14,216 15,036
[A] With effect from January 1, 2022, our reporting segments are Integrated Gas, Upstream, Marketing, Chemicals and Products, Renewables and Energy Solutions and Corporate. Comparative 
information has been revised.
[B] See Note 8 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 265-269. Segment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. 
[C] See "Non-GAAP measures reconciliations" on pages 362-365.
Business conditions 
For the business conditions relevant to Chemicals and Products, 
see "Market overview" on pages 35-37.
Chemical manufacturing plant utilisation 
Utilisation is defined as the actual usage of the plants as a percentage 
of the rated capacity. Chemicals manufacturing plant utilisation was 
79% in 2022 (previous methodology: 72%) compared with 85% in 
2021 (previous methodology: 78%). The decrease was mainly a result 
of optimisation for the low-margin environment and higher turnarounds 
during 2022.
Refinery utilisation
Utilisation is defined as the actual usage of the plants as a 
percentage of the rated capacity. Refinery utilisation was 86% 
in 2022 (previous methodology: 74%) compared with 80% in 
2021 (previous methodology: 72%) as a result of less unplanned 
maintenance and lower turnarounds.
With effect from the second quarter 2022, the methodology applied 
in calculating both Chemicals plant utilisation and Refinery utilisation 
has been revised to further align with industry disclosures. The revisions 
include moving from stream days capacity (defined as the maximum 
throughput, excluding the impact of maintenance or operational 
outages) to calendar days capacity (defined as the throughput 
including typical limitations such as maintenance over an extended 
period of time). Furthermore, Refinery utilisation is now specific to the 
capacity of the crude distillation unit (except for Scotford Refinery 
which uses the capacity of the hydrocracker), and no longer the 
capacity across all refinery units.
Chemicals and Products sales
In 2022, Chemicals sales volumes were 12,281 thousand tonnes, 
14% lower than 2021 sales volumes of 14,216 thousand tonnes, 
due to lower demand.
In 2022, Refining & Trading sales volumes were 1,700 thousand b/d, 
16% lower than 2021 volumes of 2,026 thousand b/d due to impact 
of divestments
Earnings 2022-2021
Segment earnings in 2022 were $4,515 million, 1018% higher than 
in 2021, reflected higher Products margins (increase of $5,721 million) 
reflecting higher Refining margins and higher contributions from trading 
and optimisation, lower tax charges (decrease of $300 million), as well 
as lower depreciation charges (decrease of $175 million). These were 
partly offset by lower Chemicals margins (decrease of $2,705 million) 
and higher operating expenses (increase of $822 million).
Segment earnings in 2022 included a net charge of $204 million. 
This included:
▪ impairment charges of $226 million mainly related to impairment 
of capital expenditure additions across sites based on the revisions 
to medium- and long-term price outlook assumptions decision 
considered in 2020; 
▪ legal provisions of $149 million;
▪ losses of $147 million related to the fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives;
▪ tax charges relating to the EU solidarity contribution of $74 million; 
▪ gains of $223 million related to the sale of assets; and
▪ gains of $104 million related to the remeasurement of redundancy 
and restructuring costs (mainly pension curtailments).
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Chemicals and Products continued
66 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
66
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

These gains and losses are part of identified items and compare 
with 2021 which included a net charge of $1,712 million as follows:
▪ impairment charges of $1,814 million mainly related to the 
divestment of Puget Sound, Mobile and Deer Park refineries in the 
USA and closure of production unit on Jurong Island, Singapore; 
▪ provisions for onerous contracts of $82 million; and
▪ a net gain of $160 million related to the fair value accounting 
of commodity derivatives.
Adjusted Earnings in 2022 were $4,719 million, compared with
$2,115 million in 2021. Chemicals accounted for (29)% of these 
2022 earnings, Refining for 80% and Trading and Supply for 49%. 
The increase in Adjusted Earnings of $2,604 million, driven by 
the following:
▪ Products Adjusted Earnings were $5,728 million higher than in 2021, 
mainly driven by higher realised refining margins due to increased 
prices and higher contributions from trading and optimisation. 
These were partially offset by higher operating expenses.
▪ Chemicals Adjusted Earnings were $3,125 million lower than
in 2021, mainly because of lower margins due to weak price 
environment, lower associate income and higher operating 
expenses.
Earnings 2021-2020
Segment earnings in 2021 were $404 million, 111% higher than 
in 2020.
Segment earnings in 2021 included a net charge of $1,712 million 
as described above. This net charge is part of identified items and 
compares with 2020 which included a net charge of $6,656 million 
as follows:
▪ Impairment charges of $5,500 million (across sites, reflecting 
revisions to medium- and long-term price outlook assumptions in
light of changes in supply and demand fundamentals in the energy 
market; macroeconomic conditions; the COVID-19 pandemic; 
expenditure at Pulau Bukom in Singapore including transformation; 
and the shutdown of the Convent refinery in Louisiana, USA); 
▪ restructuring costs of $313 million, mainly shutdown of Convent, 
Bukom transformation and various initiatives across Chemicals 
& Products; 
▪ other net charges of $657 million (mainly onerous contract 
provisions due to shutdown of Convent and legal provision); 
▪ net charge of $112 million related to the fair value accounting 
of commodity derivatives; and 
▪ net loss from sale of assets of $74 million.
Adjusted Earnings were $2,115 million in 2021 compared to 
$2,835 million in 2020. The decrease in Adjusted Earnings 
of $720 million was driven by the following:
▪ Products adjusted earnings were $1,511 million lower than in 2020, 
mainly driven by lower contributions from trading and optimisation, 
higher operating expenses and unfavourable tax movements. 
These were partially offset by higher margins in Refining, Oil 
sands (higher average realised price) and lower depreciation. 
▪ Chemicals adjusted earnings were $792 million higher than in 2020, 
mainly because of higher margins due to stronger price environment, 
favourable deferred tax movements, partly offset by higher 
operating expenses.
Cash capital expenditure
Cash capital expenditure was $3.8 billion in 2022, compared with 
$5.2 billion in 2021.
Cash capital expenditure decreased by $1.4 billion, mainly 
because of lower spend on the construction of our cracker facilities 
in Pennsylvania, USA, and lower turnaround. Our cash capital 
expenditure is expected to be around $3 billion to $4 billion in 2023.
Portfolio and business developments
Significant portfolio and business developments in 2022 included:
▪ In October 2022, Shell USA, Inc. and Shell Midstream Partners, L.P. 
completed the definitive agreement and plan of merger announced 
in July 2022, pursuant to which Shell USA, Inc. acquired all of 
the common units representing limited partner interests in Shell 
Midstream Partners, L.P. not held by Shell USA, Inc. or its affiliates.
▪ In November 2022, we commenced operations of our Pennsylvania 
Chemical project, Shell Polymers Monaca (SPM). The Pennsylvania 
facility is the first major polyethylene manufacturing complex in 
the north-eastern USA and has a designed output of 1.6 million 
tonnes annually.
Business and property
Chemicals
Our plants produce a range of base chemicals, including ethylene, 
propylene and aromatics, and intermediate chemicals such as styrene 
monomer, propylene oxide, solvents, detergent alcohols, ethylene 
oxide and ethylene glycol. We have the capacity to produce around 
8.1 million tonnes of ethylene a year (including the Shell share of 
capacity entitlement (offtake rights) of joint ventures and associates, 
which may be different from nominal equity interest). We are 
expanding our product portfolio to include sustainable chemicals 
made from bio-based and circular feedstocks, more intermediates 
and performance chemicals such as polyethylene and polycarbonate. 
We operate chemical plants worldwide and have a global balance of 
locations, feedstocks and products that allows us to seize commercial 
opportunities and withstand cycles of lower margins.
Shell Chemicals is transforming and has integrated further with 
Refining. In addition to our standalone, chemicals-only production 
sites, we are transforming our refineries into energy and chemicals 
parks. We expect this to happen at the following sites: Norco in the 
USA, Scotford in Canada, Pernis in the Netherlands, Rheinland in 
Germany and Pulau Bukom in Singapore. We are also exploring 
options for the former Convent Refinery in Louisiana, USA, which is 
currently shut down, and may turn it into a low-carbon fuels facility. 
The energy and chemicals parks are expected to focus more on 
meeting customers’ low-carbon and sustainability needs.
In 2022, we supplied more than 12 million tonnes of petrochemicals 
to more than 1,000 industrial customers worldwide. Products made 
from chemicals are used in everyday life in medical equipment, 
construction, transport, electronics, agriculture and sports. As global 
demand for chemicals increases, we plan to increase the size of our 
business, by understanding and responding to our customers’ needs.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Chemicals and Products continued
67 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
67
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Products – Refining & Trading
Refining
We have interests in eight refineries worldwide, with a capacity
to process a total of 1.7 million barrels of crude oil per day. 
The distribution of our refining capacity is 60% in Europe,
26% in the Americas and 14% in Asia.
Shell Refining is transforming. We are concentrating our refineries 
portfolio to meet our strategic aims and to capitalise on the strong 
integration between our customers, trading operations, chemical plants 
and, increasingly, our low-carbon fuels output. We are transforming 
our refining sites into energy and chemicals parks. See "Chemicals" 
on page 67 for details. Transforming our refineries will mean 
developing new facilities and converting or dismantling existing 
units. We plan to process less crude oil and use more renewable 
and recycled feedstocks such as hydrogen, biofuels and plastic waste. 
Trading and Supply
Through our main trading offices in London, Houston, Singapore 
and Rotterdam, we trade crude oil, low-carbon fuels, refined products, 
chemical feedstocks and environmental products. Trading and Supply 
trades in physical and financial contracts, lease storage and 
transportation capacities, and manages shipping and wholesale 
commercial fuel activities globally. 
Operating in around 25 countries, with about 180 Shell and joint-
venture (including pipeline) terminals, we believe our supply and 
distribution infrastructure is well positioned to make deliveries 
around the world. 
Shipping and Maritime enables the safe delivery of the Shell Trading 
and Supply contracts. This includes supplying feedstocks for our 
refineries and chemical plants, and finished products such as gasoline, 
diesel and aviation fuel to our Marketing segment and customers. 
Shell Wholesale Commercial Fuels provides fuels for transport, industry 
and heating and from reliable main-grade fuels to premium products. 
Pipelines
We own and operate eight tank farms across the USA through 
Shell Pipeline Company LP (Shell interest 100%). It transports around 
1.5 billion barrels of crude oil, refined products and chemicals a year 
through around 6,000 kilometres of pipelines in the Gulf of Mexico 
and nine US states. Our non-Shell-operated ownership interests 
provide another 13,000 kilometres of pipeline.
We carry more than 40 types of crude oil and more than 20 grades 
of fuel and chemicals, including gasoline, diesel, aviation fuel, 
chemicals and ethylene.
Shell Midstream Partners, L.P., a master limited partnership 
headquartered in Houston, Texas, became a wholly owned subsidiary 
of Shell in October 2022. Accordingly, we now own, operate, develop 
and acquire pipelines and other midstream and logistics assets. 
Our assets include interests in entities that own crude oil and refined 
products pipelines and terminals that serve as key infrastructure to (i) 
transport onshore and offshore crude oil production to USA Gulf Coast 
and Midwest refining markets and (ii) deliver refined products from 
those markets to major demand centres. Our assets also include 
interests in entities that own natural gas and refinery gas pipelines that 
transport offshore natural gas to market hubs and deliver refinery gas 
from refineries and plants to chemical sites along the USA Gulf Coast. 
See "Governance - related party transactions" on page 214 for further 
information regarding the acquisition of remaining common units held by the 
public representing limited partner interests in Shell Midstream Partners, L.P.
Oil Sands
Synthetic crude oil is produced by mining bitumen-saturated sands, 
extracting the bitumen, and transporting it to a processing facility 
where hydrogen is added to make a wide range of feedstocks for 
refineries. The Athabasca Oil Sands Project (AOSP) in Alberta, 
Canada, includes the Albian Sands mining and extraction operations, 
the Scotford upgrader and the Quest carbon capture and storage 
(CCS) project.
We have a 50% interest in 1745844 Alberta Ltd. (formerly known 
as Marathon Oil Canada Corporation), which holds a 20% interest 
in the Athabasca Oil Sands Project.
Business activities with Syria
We ceased supplying polyols, via a Netherlands-based distributor, 
to private-sector customers in Syria in 2018. Polyols are commonly 
used for the production of foam in mattresses and soft furnishings.
Chemicals and Products data tables
The tables below reflect Shell subsidiaries and instances where Shell 
owns the crude oil or feedstocks processed by a refinery. Other joint 
ventures and associates are only included where explicitly stated. 
 Refining & Trading sales volumes [A][B]
 
Thousand b/d
2022 2021 2020
Europe  830  426  472 
Asia  377  870  974 
Africa  39  47  70 
Americas  454  683  918 
Total  1,700  2,026  2,434 
Gasolines  410  551  660 
Kerosines  117  123  163 
Gas/Diesel oils  616  735  921 
Fuel oil  270  337  346 
Other products  287  280  344 
Total  1,700  2,026  2,434 
[A] Excludes deliveries to other companies under reciprocal sale and purchase arrangements, 
that are in the nature of exchanges. Sales of condensate are included. 
[B] Certain contracts are held for trading purposes and reported net rather than gross. 
The effect in 2022 was a reduction in refining and trading sales of approximately 
1,197 thousand b/d (2021: 1,127 thousand b/d; 2020: 1,284 thousand b/d).
 Cost of crude oil processed or consumed [A]
 
$/barrel
2022 2021 2020
Total  84.39  60.51  35.03 
[A] Includes Upstream and Integrated Gas margins on crude oil supplied by Shell subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Chemicals and Products continued
68 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
68
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Crude distillation capacity [A]
 
Thousand b/stream day [B]
2022 2021 2020
Europe  990  1,023  1,059 
Asia  237  307  573 
Africa  23  90  90 
Americas  449  729  1,028 
Total  1,698  2,149  2,750 
[A] Average operating capacity for the year, excluding mothballed capacity. 
[B] Stream day capacity is the maximum capacity with no allowance for downtime.
 Crude oil processed [A]
 
Thousand b/d
2022 2021 2020
Europe  715  761  810 
Asia  184  223  292 
Africa  16  57  54 
Americas  353  455  719 
Total  1,268  1,496  1,875 
[A] Includes natural gas liquids, share of joint ventures and associates and processing
for others.
 Refinery processing intake [A]
 
Thousand b/d
2022 2021 2020
Crude oil  1,267  1,496  1,876 
Feedstocks  135  143  187 
Total  1,402  1,639  2,063 
Europe  763  806  854 
Asia  184  225  302 
Africa  16  57  54 
Americas  439  551  853 
Total  1,402  1,639  2,063 
[A] Includes crude oil, natural gas liquids and feedstocks processed in crude distillation units 
and in secondary conversion units.
 Refinery processing outturn [A]
 
Thousand b/d
2022 2021 2020
Gasolines  477  624  771 
Kerosines  166  141  158 
Gas/Diesel oils  512  611  774 
Fuel oil  90  108  140 
Other  193  258  279 
Total  1,438  1,742  2,122 
[A] Excludes own use and products acquired for blending purposes.
Manufacturing plants at December 31, 2022
 Refineries in operation
 
Thousand barrels/stream day, 100% capacity [B]
Location Asset class
Shell interest 
(%) [A]
Crude
distillation
capacity
Thermal
cracking/
visbreaking/
coking
Catalytic
cracking
Hydro-
cracking
Europe
Germany Miro [C]  32  313  40  96  — 
Rheinland g	n  100  354  49  —  90 
Schwedt [C]  38  234  46  57  — 
Netherlands Pernis g	n  100  447  —  53  104 
Asia
Singapore Pulau Bukom
g	n  100  237  —  —  61 
Africa
South Africa Durban [C] [D]  36  180  25  37  — 
Americas
Argentina Buenos Aires [C]
n	c  44  108  20  22  — 
Canada
Alberta Scotford
g  100  100  —  —  83 
Ontario Sarnia c  100  85  5  21  10 
USA
Louisiana Norco
g  100  250  29  119  44 
[A] Shell interest is rounded to the nearest whole percentage point; Shell share of production capacity may differ. 
[B] Stream day capacity is the maximum capacity with no allowance for downtime. 
[C] Not operated by Shell.
[D] Refinery operations were paused from Q2 2022.
g Integrated refinery and chemical complex 
n Refinery complex with cogeneration capacity 
c Refinery complex with chemical unit(s)
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Chemicals and Products continued
69 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
69
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Chemicals data tables
The tables below reflect Shell subsidiaries and instances where Shell owns the crude oil or feedstocks processed by a refinery. Other joint ventures 
and associates are only included where explicitly stated.
 Ethylene capacity [A]
 
Thousand tonnes/year
2022 2021 2020
Europe  1,710  1,726  1,701 
Asia  2,542  2,542  2,530 
Americas [B]  3,821  2,321  2,268 
Total  8,073  6,589  6,499 
[A] Includes the Shell share of capacity entitlement (offtake rights) of joint ventures and associates, which may be different from nominal equity interest. Nominal capacity is quoted 
at December 31.
[B] Includes data pertaining to Shell Polymers Monaca which commenced operations in November 2022.
Converting plastic waste to chemical 
feedstock at Moerdijk
Shell is investing in a new pyrolysis oil upgrader at its Shell 
Chemicals Park Moerdijk in the Netherlands which will convert 
plastic waste into chemical feedstock, replacing traditional 
hydrocarbon raw materials. The new upgrader is expected to 
start production in 2024 and will help us meet the rising demand 
from our customers for more low-carbon products that are made 
from recycled material.
The new pyrolysis oil upgrader unit treats liquid made from 
plastic waste that cannot be mechanically recycled. The 
upgrader prevents waste that would otherwise have gone to 
landfill or incineration. The unit will have a capacity of 50,000 
tonnes per annum, which is equivalent to the weight of about 
7.8 billion plastic bags. This contributes to our circular economy 
ambition to recycle one million tonnes of plastic waste in our 
chemical plants by 2025. 
We will use the treated pyrolysis oil to produce chemicals 
which are the ingredients used in many end products that 
are all around us.
Over the next 10 years, the Shell Chemicals Park Moerdijk 
plans to increase the use of circular and bio-based feedstocks, 
growing its offer of low-carbon products, and aims to become 
net zero through using hydrogen and implementing carbon 
capture and storage (CCS) technology.
Photo: Pipe racks in one of the many units of Shell Chemicals Park Moerdijk, 
the Netherlands.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Chemicals and Products continued
70 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
70
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Chemicals sales volumes [A]
 
Thousand tonnes/year
2022 2021 2020
Europe
Base chemicals  2,809  3,883  3,490 
Intermediates and other chemicals products  1,955  2,076  1,990 
Total  4,764  5,959  5,480 
Asia
Base chemicals  825  1,354  1,192 
Intermediates and other chemicals products  2,147  2,656  2,969 
Total  2,972  4,010  4,161 
Americas
Base chemicals  2,125  1,984  2,936 
Intermediates and other chemicals products  2,420  2,263  2,459 
Total  4,545  4,247  5,395 
Total product sales
Base chemicals  5,759  7,221  7,618 
Intermediates and other chemicals products  6,522  6,995  7,418 
Total  12,281  14,216  15,036 
[A] Excludes feedstock trading and by-products.
 Major chemical plants in operation [A]
 
Thousand tonnes/year, Shell share capacity [B]
Location Ethylene Polyethylene
Styrene
monomer
Ethylene
glycol
Higher olefins
[C]
Additional
products
Europe
Germany Rheinland  324  —  —  —  — A
Netherlands Moerdijk  971  —  815  153  — A, I
UK Mossmorran [D]  415  —  —  —  — O
Asia
China Nanhai [D]  1,100  605  645  415  — A, I
Singapore Jurong Island [E]  281  —  1,069  1,081  — A, I, P, O
Pulau Bukom  1,161  —  —  —  — A, I
Americas
Canada Scotford  —  —  475  462  — A, I
USA Monaca [F]  1,500  1,600  —  —  — 
Deer Park  889  —  —  —  — A, I
Geismar  —  —  —  400  1,390 I
Norco  1,432  —  —  —  — A
Total  8,073  2,205  3,004  2,511  1,390 
[A] Major chemical plants are large integrated chemical facilities, typically producing a range of chemical products from an array of feedstocks. 
[B] Shell share of capacity of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates (Shell- and non-Shell-operated), excluding capacity of the Infineum additives joint ventures. 
[C] Higher olefins are linear alpha and internal olefins (products range from C4 to C2024). 
[D] Not operated by Shell.
[E] The Polypropylene and olefins production mentioned refers to Shell share of capacity of our non-operated joint ventures Petchem Corporation of Singapore (PCS) and The Polyolefin 
Company (TPC) which are on Jurong Island. 
[F] Shell Polymers Monaca commenced its operations in November 2022.
A Aromatics, lower olefins 
I Intermediates
P Polypropylene 
O Other 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Chemicals and Products continued
71 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
71
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Other chemical locations [A]
 
Location Products
Europe
Germany Karlsruhe A
Schwedt A
Netherlands Rotterdam A, I, O
Americas
Argentina Buenos Aires I
Canada Sarnia A, I
[A] Other chemical locations reflect locations with smaller chemical units, typically serving more local markets. 
A Aromatics, lower olefins 
I Intermediates 
O Other 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Chemicals and Products continued
72 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
72
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Renewables and Energy Solutions
Renewables and Energy Solutions (R&ES) includes 
renewable power generation, the marketing and 
trading of power and pipeline gas, as well as 
carbon credits, and digitally enabled customer 
solutions. R&ES also includes the production 
and
 marketing of hydrogen, development of 
commercial carbon capture and storage (CCS) 
hubs, investment in nature-based projects that 
avoid or reduce carbon emissions (NBS), and Shell 
Ventures, which invests in companies that work to 
accelerate the energy and mobility transformation.
Segment earnings ($ billion)
(1.1) 2021: (1.5)
Adjusted Earnings ($ billion)
1.7 2021: (0.2)
Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion)
(6.4) 2021: 0.5
External power sales (terawatt hours) [A]
243 2021: 247
Sales of pipeline gas to end-use customers
(terawatt hours) [B]
843 2021: 899
Renewable capacity (gigawatt) [C]
6.4 2021: 3.0
[A] Physical power sales to third parties; excluding financial trades and physical 
trade with brokers, investors, financial institutions, trading platforms, and 
wholesale traders. 
[B] Physical natural gas sales to third parties; excluding financial trades and 
physical trade with brokers, investors, financial institutions, trading platforms, 
and wholesale traders. Excluding sales of natural gas by other segments and 
LNG sales.
[C] Renewable power generation capacity (Shell Interest) in operation, under 
construction and/or committed for sale.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value
73 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
73
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Key statistics [A]
 
$ million, except where indicated
2022 2021 2020
Segment earnings/(loss)  (1,059)  (1,514)  (479) 
Including:
Revenue (including inter-segment sales)  59,981  27,090  13,979 
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates  (7)  (27)  (50) 
Interest and other income  57  200  (197) 
Operating expenses [B] 3,590 2,745 1,716
Underlying operating expenses [B] 3,583 2,737 1,711
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  777  326  424 
Taxation charge/(credit)  (303)  (342)  (61) 
Identified Items [B]  (2,805)  (1,272)  (277) 
Adjusted Earnings [B] 1,745  (243)  (202) 
Adjusted EBITDA [B] 2,459  (21) 25
Capital expenditure 2,609 2,069 363
Cash capital expenditure [B] 3,469 2,359 928
External power sales (terawatt hours) 243 247 252
Sales of pipeline gas to end-use customers (terawatt hours) 843 899 882
[A] With effect from January 1, 2022, our reporting segments are Integrated Gas, Upstream, Marketing, Chemicals and Products, Renewables and Energy Solutions and Corporate. 
Comparative information has been revised.
[B] See "Non-GAAP measures reconciliations" on pages 362-365. 
Business conditions
For the business conditions relevant to Renewables and Energy 
Solutions, see "Market overview" on pages 35-37.
External power sales
In 2022, our external power sales were 243 terawatt hours (TWh), 
compared with 247 TWh in 2021. The difference was mainly a result 
of higher volume sales during a Texas winter storm in 2021 and mild 
weather conditions in 2022. This was partly offset by business 
growth in the Americas and Europe.
Sales of pipeline gas to end-use customers
In 2022, our sales of pipeline gas to end-use consumers were 
843 TWh, compared with 899 TWh in 2021. This difference 
was also mainly a result of high demand during the Texas winter 
storm in 2021, and more sales to trading intermediaries versus
end-user counterparties.
Earnings 2022-2021 
Segment earnings in 2022 were a loss of $1,059 million, compared 
with a loss of $1,514 million in 2021. The narrowing of the loss 
was mainly driven by higher prices and contributions from trading, 
marketing and optimisation results for gas and power (around $1,900 
million). This was partly offset by higher operating expenses as a result 
of business growth and acquisitions (around $900 million), impairment 
(around $400 million) and tax charges (around $100 million).
Full year 2022 segment earnings included Identified Items of $2,805 
million which comprised losses of $2,443 million due to the fair value 
accounting of commodity derivatives and impairment charges of $361 
million mainly in Europe. The full year 2021 Identified Items were a loss 
of $1,272 million, mainly as a result of the fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives.
Adjusted Earnings were $1,745 million in 2022. Adjusted Earnings 
from Energy Marketing and Trading and Optimisation accounted for 
135% of R&ES 2022 Adjusted Earnings, partially offset by Renewable 
Power Generation, Hydrogen, CCS, NBS and Shell Ventures that 
accounted for (35)%. 
Adjusted EBITDA was $2,459 million and included the impact of 
underlying operating expenses of $3,583 million, driven by business 
growth and the early-development stage of some of the portfolios prior 
to operating status.
Adjusted Earnings were a loss of $243 million in 2021. Adjusted 
Earnings from Renewable Power Generation, Hydrogen, CCS, 
NBS, and Shell Ventures accounted for 155% of R&ES 2021 negative 
Adjusted Earnings. These were partially offset by a positive Adjusted 
Earnings contribution from Energy Marketing and Trading and 
Optimisation (55)%.
Earnings 2021-2020
Segment earnings in 2021 were a loss of $1,514 million, compared 
with a loss of $479 million in 2020. This bigger loss was mainly 
driven by higher operating expenses, mainly related to provisions 
for counterparty risk due to the Texas winter storm (around 
$1,000 million), and lower contributions from trading, marketing 
and optimisation results for gas and power (around $300 million). 
This was partly offset by lower tax charges (around $300 million).
Full year 2021 segment earnings included Identified Items of $1,272 
million which comprised losses mainly due to the fair value accounting 
of commodity derivatives. Full year 2020 Identified Items were a loss of 
$277 million reflecting impairment charges of $190 million and the fair 
value accounting of commodity derivatives of $89 million.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Renewables and Energy Solutions continued
74 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
74
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Key statistics [A]
 
$ million, except where indicated
2022 2021 2020
Segment earnings/(loss)  (1,059)  (1,514)  (479) 
Including:
Revenue (including inter-segment sales)  59,981  27,090  13,979 
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates  (7)  (27)  (50) 
Interest and other income  57  200  (197) 
Operating expenses [B] 3,590 2,745 1,716
Underlying operating expenses [B] 3,583 2,737 1,711
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  777  326  424 
Taxation charge/(credit)  (303)  (342)  (61) 
Identified Items [B]  (2,805)  (1,272)  (277) 
Adjusted Earnings [B] 1,745  (243)  (202) 
Adjusted EBITDA [B] 2,459  (21) 25
Capital expenditure 2,609 2,069 363
Cash capital expenditure [B] 3,469 2,359 928
External power sales (terawatt hours) 243 247 252
Sales of pipeline gas to end-use customers (terawatt hours) 843 899 882
[A] With effect from January 1, 2022, our reporting segments are Integrated Gas, Upstream, Marketing, Chemicals and Products, Renewables and Energy Solutions and Corporate. 
Comparative information has been revised.
[B] See "Non-GAAP measures reconciliations" on pages 362-365. 
Business conditions
For the business conditions relevant to Renewables and Energy 
Solutions, see "Market overview" on pages 35-37.
External power sales
In 2022, our external power sales were 243 terawatt hours (TWh), 
compared with 247 TWh in 2021. The difference was mainly a result 
of higher volume sales during a Texas winter storm in 2021 and mild 
weather conditions in 2022. This was partly offset by business 
growth in the Americas and Europe.
Sales of pipeline gas to end-use customers
In 2022, our sales of pipeline gas to end-use consumers were 
843 TWh, compared with 899 TWh in 2021. This difference 
was also mainly a result of high demand during the Texas winter 
storm in 2021, and more sales to trading intermediaries versus
end-user counterparties.
Earnings 2022-2021 
Segment earnings in 2022 were a loss of $1,059 million, compared 
with a loss of $1,514 million in 2021. The narrowing of the loss 
was mainly driven by higher prices and contributions from trading, 
marketing and optimisation results for gas and power (around $1,900 
million). This was partly offset by higher operating expenses as a result 
of business growth and acquisitions (around $900 million), impairment 
(around $400 million) and tax charges (around $100 million).
Full year 2022 segment earnings included Identified Items of $2,805 
million which comprised losses of $2,443 million due to the fair value 
accounting of commodity derivatives and impairment charges of $361 
million mainly in Europe. The full year 2021 Identified Items were a loss 
of $1,272 million, mainly as a result of the fair value accounting of 
commodity derivatives.
Adjusted Earnings were $1,745 million in 2022. Adjusted Earnings 
from Energy Marketing and Trading and Optimisation accounted for 
135% of R&ES 2022 Adjusted Earnings, partially offset by Renewable 
Power Generation, Hydrogen, CCS, NBS and Shell Ventures that 
accounted for (35)%. 
Adjusted EBITDA was $2,459 million and included the impact of 
underlying operating expenses of $3,583 million, driven by business 
growth and the early-development stage of some of the portfolios prior 
to operating status.
Adjusted Earnings were a loss of $243 million in 2021. Adjusted 
Earnings from Renewable Power Generation, Hydrogen, CCS, 
NBS, and Shell Ventures accounted for 155% of R&ES 2021 negative 
Adjusted Earnings. These were partially offset by a positive Adjusted 
Earnings contribution from Energy Marketing and Trading and 
Optimisation (55)%.
Earnings 2021-2020
Segment earnings in 2021 were a loss of $1,514 million, compared 
with a loss of $479 million in 2020. This bigger loss was mainly 
driven by higher operating expenses, mainly related to provisions 
for counterparty risk due to the Texas winter storm (around 
$1,000 million), and lower contributions from trading, marketing 
and optimisation results for gas and power (around $300 million). 
This was partly offset by lower tax charges (around $300 million).
Full year 2021 segment earnings included Identified Items of $1,272 
million which comprised losses mainly due to the fair value accounting 
of commodity derivatives. Full year 2020 Identified Items were a loss of 
$277 million reflecting impairment charges of $190 million and the fair 
value accounting of commodity derivatives of $89 million.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Renewables and Energy Solutions continued
74 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Cash capital expenditure
Cash capital expenditure in 2022 was $3.5 billion, of which 
$2.9 billion was in low-carbon energy solutions. Cash capital 
expenditure in 2021 was $2.4 billion, of which $1.8 billion was
in low-carbon energy solutions. This increase was mainly a result
of the development projects in our wind and solar power 
generation business.
Our cash capital expenditure is expected to be in the range
of $2-4 billion in 2023.
Portfolio and business development
Key portfolio events included the following: 
▪ In January 2022, Shell and ScottishPower won bids to develop
5 GW of floating wind power in the UK.
▪ In January 2022, we started operations at the power-to-hydrogen 
electrolyser in China.
▪ In February 2022, we completed the acquisition of online
energy retailer Powershop Australia which was announced
in November 2021.
▪ In April 2022, Atlantic Shores Offshore Wind (ASOW), our 50:50 
joint venture with EDF Renewables North America, was awarded the 
commercial lease for acreage in the New York Bight offshore wind 
auction, USA. This was after it was announced as provisional winner
in February.
▪ In July 2022, we took the final investment decision to build a 
200 MW electrolyser, Holland Hydrogen I (Shell interest 100%), 
which is expected to be operational from 2025.
▪ In August 2022, we completed the acquisition of renewable energy 
platform Sprng Energy group in India, which was announced in
April 2022.
▪ In December 2022, Ecowende, our joint venture with Eneco, won
the tender to develop a 760 MW offshore wind farm at Hollandse 
Kust (west) lot VI in the Netherlands.
Business and property
We are building our R&ES portfolio through organic and inorganic 
growth. Most of these growth opportunities are in sectors that 
differ from, but have similarities and links to, Shell's existing oil 
and gas businesses. 
Some acquired companies in new business sectors are not yet in 
full compliance with the Shell Control Framework. Following specific 
assessment for each of those companies, dedicated projects were put 
in place to achieve compliance, with regular updates on the progress.
Energy Marketing
We provide electricity and smart energy solutions to residential, 
commercial and industrial customers. We do this through direct 
electricity sales, storage solutions and energy optimisation services.
We sell natural gas and power to more than 2.2 million retail 
customers mainly in the UK, the USA, Australia, Germany, and 
the Netherlands.
Our largest markets for commercial and industrial customers are 
Australia and the USA. In Australia we are one of the largest 
commercial and industrial retailers of electricity in the market.
In January 2023 we launched a strategic review of our European 
home energy retail business including our operations in the UK, 
the Netherlands and Germany. Our priority remains to ensure 
our customers in those countries continue to receive a reliable 
and affordable energy supply. No decisions have been taken
at this time. We intend to provide an update on the outcome
of the review in due course.
Trading and Optimisation
We market and trade natural gas and power from our own assets 
and from third parties. In the USA we are one of the leading power 
wholesale traders.
Renewable Power Generation
We enable renewable power generation by owning and operating 
wind farms and solar plants, and participating in joint ventures.
At the end of 2022, our share of renewable generation capacity was 
2.2 GW in operation and 4.2 GW in development. Our renewable 
power capacities are listed below:
 
Renewable power capacity in operation and in 
development as of December 31, 2022 - by region
 
In operation [A] In development [B]
Location
100% 
capacity 
(MW)
Shell 
interest 
(MW)
100% 
capacity 
(MW)
Shell 
interest 
(MW)
Asia  2,250  1,830  681  614 
Europe  932  344  1,664  1,208 
North America  103  51  3,596  2,241 
Australia  —  —  120  120 
Total  3,285  2,225  6,061  4,183 
 
Renewable power generation capacity in operation 
and in development as of December 31, 2022
 
2022 2021 2020
Renewable power generation capacity 
(Shell interest - gigawatt):
In operation [A] 2.2 0.7 0.4
In development [B] 4.2 2.3 1.7
[A] Renewable generation capacity post commercial operation date.
[B] Renewable generation capacity under construction and/or committed for sale under
long-term offtake agreements (PPA).
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Renewables and Energy Solutions continued
75 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
75
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Hydrogen 
We are part of joint ventures and alliances that have built hydrogen 
filling stations for passenger cars and trucks. Since July 2021, we have 
operated an electrolyser (Shell interest 100%) in Germany, which 
produces green hydrogen (produced using electricity from renewable 
sources). In China, our joint venture Zhangjiakou City Transport and 
Shell New Energy Co., Limited (Shell interest 47.5%) developed a 
renewable power electrolyser and is developing hydrogen filling 
stations in Zhangjiakou City in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region.
The electrolyser started operations in January 2022. In July 2022,
we announced the final investment decision to build the 200 MW 
electrolyser Holland Hydrogen I (Shell interest 100%) in the 
Netherlands, which is expected to be operational from 2025.
Carbon capture and storage
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is a combination of technologies 
that capture and store CO
2 deep underground, preventing its release 
into the atmosphere. In the R&ES segment we offer CCS services to 
our customers. Existing CCS operations that help decarbonise our 
own assets are reported in the segment where the relevant asset sits.
We have a 33.3% interest in the Northern Lights CCS joint venture, 
where the other partners are Equinor and TotalEnergies (equal 
partners). The project is located in Norway and is under construction. 
Phase One is expected to be operational in 2024.
Nature and Environmental Solutions
Nature and Environmental Solutions include our Nature-Based 
Solutions (NBS) business and the Environmental Products Trading 
Business (EPTB). NBS conserve, enhance and restore ecosystems – 
such as forests, grasslands and wetlands – to prevent greenhouse
gas emissions or reduce atmospheric CO
2 levels. 
Through EPTB we develop, offtake, trade and supply environmental 
products across compliance and voluntary markets, and this includes 
working with our other businesses such as Integrated Gas or Marketing 
to provide integrated energy solutions to customers.
Shell Ventures
Shell Ventures are corporate venture funds, where we act as an 
investor and a partner to help commercialise innovative businesses. 
We aim to accelerate the energy and mobility transformation by 
investing in companies that lower emissions, electrify energy systems, 
gain data-based insights and provide innovative consumer solutions.
Treasury Wine Estates switches to solar
In 2022, Shell helped wine producer Treasury Wine Estates, 
owner of the Penfolds, 19 Crimes, St Huberts and Wolf Blass 
labels, get closer to achieving its net-zero target and become
a renewable energy producer by installing a combined 
9,500 solar panel modules at two of its Australian sites.
The solar modules were installed at the Barossa Winery and 
packaging centre in South Australia, and the Karadoc Winery
in Victoria. They have been installed on rooftops and in open 
ground areas, and are expected to generate more than 5,500 
megawatt-hours of electricity per year. This is the equivalent of 
powering 900 homes and offers an example of how the wine 
industry can navigate the energy transition. 
Treasury Wine Estates wants to produce wine sustainably 
and is aiming for net-zero emissions from its own operations 
and the energy it consumes by 2030. Shell’s Powering 
Progress strategy seeks to help customers decarbonise by 
identifying and providing solutions for cleaner, affordable 
and reliable energy. 
Shell Energy is working with Treasury Wine Estates, which 
has 13,000 hectares of vineyards all over the world, to 
provide renewable energy across the wine company’s 
operations, from cultivation to cellar door, tasting halls, offices 
and packaging centres. A further 9,000 solar panels are in the 
process of being installed at Treasury Wine Estates’ Californian 
vineyards, including Sterling Winery, TWE Paso Winery, Paris 
Valley Ranch and Beaulieu Vineyards.
Photo: Solar panels installed at Treasury Wine Estates, Australia, helping TWE get 
closer to achieving its net-zero target.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Renewables and Energy Solutions continued
76 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
76
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Hydrogen 
We are part of joint ventures and alliances that have built hydrogen 
filling stations for passenger cars and trucks. Since July 2021, we have 
operated an electrolyser (Shell interest 100%) in Germany, which 
produces green hydrogen (produced using electricity from renewable 
sources). In China, our joint venture Zhangjiakou City Transport and 
Shell New Energy Co., Limited (Shell interest 47.5%) developed a 
renewable power electrolyser and is developing hydrogen filling 
stations in Zhangjiakou City in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region.
The electrolyser started operations in January 2022. In July 2022,
we announced the final investment decision to build the 200 MW 
electrolyser Holland Hydrogen I (Shell interest 100%) in the 
Netherlands, which is expected to be operational from 2025.
Carbon capture and storage
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is a combination of technologies 
that capture and store CO
2 deep underground, preventing its release 
into the atmosphere. In the R&ES segment we offer CCS services to 
our customers. Existing CCS operations that help decarbonise our 
own assets are reported in the segment where the relevant asset sits.
We have a 33.3% interest in the Northern Lights CCS joint venture, 
where the other partners are Equinor and TotalEnergies (equal 
partners). The project is located in Norway and is under construction. 
Phase One is expected to be operational in 2024.
Nature and Environmental Solutions
Nature and Environmental Solutions include our Nature-Based 
Solutions (NBS) business and the Environmental Products Trading 
Business (EPTB). NBS conserve, enhance and restore ecosystems – 
such as forests, grasslands and wetlands – to prevent greenhouse
gas emissions or reduce atmospheric CO
2 levels. 
Through EPTB we develop, offtake, trade and supply environmental 
products across compliance and voluntary markets, and this includes 
working with our other businesses such as Integrated Gas or Marketing 
to provide integrated energy solutions to customers.
Shell Ventures
Shell Ventures are corporate venture funds, where we act as an 
investor and a partner to help commercialise innovative businesses. 
We aim to accelerate the energy and mobility transformation by 
investing in companies that lower emissions, electrify energy systems, 
gain data-based insights and provide innovative consumer solutions.
Treasury Wine Estates switches to solar
In 2022, Shell helped wine producer Treasury Wine Estates, 
owner of the Penfolds, 19 Crimes, St Huberts and Wolf Blass 
labels, get closer to achieving its net-zero target and become
a renewable energy producer by installing a combined 
9,500 solar panel modules at two of its Australian sites.
The solar modules were installed at the Barossa Winery and 
packaging centre in South Australia, and the Karadoc Winery
in Victoria. They have been installed on rooftops and in open 
ground areas, and are expected to generate more than 5,500 
megawatt-hours of electricity per year. This is the equivalent of 
powering 900 homes and offers an example of how the wine 
industry can navigate the energy transition. 
Treasury Wine Estates wants to produce wine sustainably 
and is aiming for net-zero emissions from its own operations 
and the energy it consumes by 2030. Shell’s Powering 
Progress strategy seeks to help customers decarbonise by 
identifying and providing solutions for cleaner, affordable 
and reliable energy. 
Shell Energy is working with Treasury Wine Estates, which 
has 13,000 hectares of vineyards all over the world, to 
provide renewable energy across the wine company’s 
operations, from cultivation to cellar door, tasting halls, offices 
and packaging centres. A further 9,000 solar panels are in the 
process of being installed at Treasury Wine Estates’ Californian 
vineyards, including Sterling Winery, TWE Paso Winery, Paris 
Valley Ranch and Beaulieu Vineyards.
Photo: Solar panels installed at Treasury Wine Estates, Australia, helping TWE get 
closer to achieving its net-zero target.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value | Renewables and Energy Solutions continued
76 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Corporate
 Earnings
 
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Segment earnings  (2,461)  (2,606)  (2,952) 
Comprising:
Net interest [A]  (1,723)  (2,701)  (2,991) 
Operating expenses and other [B]  (745)  (570)  (943) 
Taxation credit  7  665  982 
Identified Items  (90)  81  460 
Adjusted Earnings  (2,371)  (2,686)  (3,412) 
Adjusted EBITDA  (725)  (554)  (933) 
[A] Mainly Shell’s interest expense (excluding accretion expense) and interest income. 
[B] Other mainly comprises net foreign exchange gains and losses on financing activities, headquarters and central functions’ costs not recovered from business segments, and net gains on sale
of properties. 
Overview
The Corporate segment covers the non-operating activities supporting 
Shell. It comprises Shell’s holdings and treasury organisation, self-
insurance activities and headquarters and central functions. All finance 
expense, income and related taxes are included in Corporate segment 
earnings rather than in the earnings of business segments. 
The holdings and treasury organisation manages many of the 
Corporate entities. It is the point of contact between Shell and 
external capital markets, conducting a wide range of transactions, 
such as raising debt instruments and transacting foreign exchange. 
Treasury centres in London and Singapore support these activities. 
Headquarters and central functions provide business support in 
communications, finance, health, human resources, information 
technology (IT), legal services, real estate and security. They also 
provide support for shareholder-related activities. The central functions 
are supported by business service centres, which process transactions, 
manage data and produce statutory returns, among other services. 
Most headquarters and central-function costs are recovered from 
the business segments. Costs that are not recovered are retained 
in Corporate. 
Earnings 2022-2021
Segment earnings in 2022 were an expense of $2,461 million, 
compared with $2,606 million in 2021. 
This decrease in expense was mainly driven by favourable movements 
in net interest expense. This was primarily due to an increase in interest 
income generated on cash balances, a reduction in interest expense on 
lease liabilities, and a reduction in interest expense on debt following 
repayments in 2021. This was partially offset by lower tax credits on 
financing items and higher net foreign exchange losses due to 
unfavourable exchange rate movements. 
Prior year earnings summary
Our earnings summary for the financial year ended December 31, 
2021, compared with the financial year ended December 31, 2020, 
can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts (page 74) and Form 
20-F (page 73) for the year ended December 31, 2021, as filed with 
the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales and the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission, respectively. 
Self-insurance
We mainly self-insure our hazard risk exposures. Our Group 
insurance companies are adequately capitalised to meet self-insurance 
obligations and respective regulations, though they may transfer 
risks to third-party insurers where economical, effective and 
relevant (see "Risk factors" on page 23). We continually assess 
the safety performance of our operations and make risk mitigation 
recommendations, where relevant, to minimise the risk of an accident.
Information technology and cyber security 
Digitalisation is a key success factor in Shell’s Powering Progress 
strategy. Shell is fast transforming its IT systems to support the evolving 
portfolio of businesses and is investing in new technologies to enhance 
IT capabilities such as data analytics, artificial intelligence, machine 
learning and virtual reality, bringing value to the business. 
The growing dependence on information technology and data also 
brings risks which could cause significant harm to Shell in the form of 
loss of productivity, loss of intellectual property, regulatory fines and 
reputational damage. Cyber security is key to managing those risks, 
especially in today’s increasingly regulated environment and adverse 
cyber threat landscape.
Shell operates a multi-level defence strategy underpinned by the Shell 
IT Control Framework and advanced cyber defence capabilities to 
prevent, detect, respond to, and evolve with complex cyber and data 
privacy risks. At the same time, we continuously measure and, where 
required, further improve our cyber-security capabilities to reduce the 
likelihood of successful cyber attacks.
A cyber security mindset across the enterprise forms the first line of 
defence to protect Shell. Robust governance processes are embedded 
across Shell to increase cyber awareness, monitor key cyber risks, and 
provide risk assurance. Cyber risk strategy and risk management are 
regularly reviewed with the Audit Committee and Board of Directors. 
Shell employees and contract staff are subject to mandatory courses 
and regular awareness campaigns aimed at protecting us against 
cyber threats.
 
See "Risk factors" on page 21.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Generating shareholder value
77 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
77
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Shell has long recognised that greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions from the use of hydrocarbon-
based energy are contributing to the warming of 
the climate system. We support the more ambitious 
goal of the UN Paris Agreement, which is to limit 
the rise in global average temperature this century 
to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.
Shell’s Powering Progress strategy is designed 
to generate shareholder value while meeting our 
target of becoming a net-zero emissions energy 
business by 2050. 
Since 2017, Shell has supported the 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The TCFD 
aims to improve the disclosure of climate-related 
risks and opportunities and provide stakeholders 
with the information they need to undertake robust 
and consistent analyses of the potential financial 
impacts of climate change. The TCFD recommends 
disclosure of qualitative and quantitative 
information aligned to its four core elements: 
governance, strategy, risk management, 
and metrics and targets. 
We recognise the value that the recommendations 
bring and, in accordance with UK Listing Rule 
9.8.6R, set out below our climate-related financial 
disclosures consistent with all of the TCFD 
Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures. 
By this we mean the four recommendations 
and the 11 recommended disclosures set out in 
Figure 4 of Section C of the report entitled 
"Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures" published in June 
2017 by the TCFD. We also take into account 
relevant supplemental guidance including, for 
example, the TCFD’s additional guidance 
"Implementing the Recommendations of the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures" (also known as the 2021 TCFD 
Annex) published in October 2021 by the 
TCFD. We continue to align and enhance 
our climate-related disclosures. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero
78 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
78
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
79 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Our journey to net zero
Governance (see Governance for more information)
Board 
Delivery of the strategy through our businesses 
Executive Committee Accountability for delivering our 
energy transition strategy sits with 
the CEO, with support from the 
Executive Committee and regular 
monitoring by the Board.
Capital Investment 
Committee
Carbon committees such as the 
Carbon Reporting Committee
Climate Risk Management (see Climate Risk Management for more information)
Key Risk Factors
Commercial risk Regulatory risk
Physical risk Societal risk
Climate risk assessment
and monitoring integrated 
into Shell’s overall risk 
management processes via:
Strategy (see Strategy for more information)
Our ﬁnancial strength and access to capital give us the ability to reshape our portfolio as the energy system transforms.
We seek to 
decarbonise our 
own operations…
…whilst supporting 
the transformation 
of the energy 
system
-1.3% reduction
vs 2021 actual
Metrics & Targets (see Metrics & Targets for more information)
 mandatory standards and manuals
 project-level risk management 
 management and Board reviews
 internal audits and investigations 
 annual attestation processes
 portfolio changes: acquisitions, new low-carbon
 projects, shutting down and decommissioning units,
 divestments, natural decline
 improving the energy efﬁciency of our operations
 low-carbon energy and chemicals parks
 using more renewable electricity in our operations
 developing carbon capture and storage (CCS)
 using high-quality carbon credits, if required
 provide more electricity and renewable power
 develop low- and zero-carbon alternatives
 to traditional fuels
 help customers to decarbonise their use of energy
 address remaining emissions from conventional
 fuels with CCS and carbon credits
Safety, Environmental and 
Sustainability Committee
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Our carbon management 
framework oversees carbon 
reduction considerations across 
the Shell Group.
Oversight of our energy 
transition strategy by the board, 
supported by board committees.
63
76
79
-20%
2030
Carbon credits
Carbon capture
and storage
Low-carbon
fuels sales
Electricity
sales
Hydrocarbon
sales
2022
2016
58
41
83
-50%
a b
2030
Carbon credits
Carbon capture
and storage
Use of renewable
power
Energy and chemicals
park transformation
Efﬁciency
improvements
Portfolio changes
2022
2016
-15% reduction
vs 2021 actual
-1.3% -15%
Working to reduce our net carbon intensity
Net carbon intensity in gCO 2e/MJ, equity control
Working to reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions
Scope 1 and 2 emissions in million tonnes CO
2e per annum, operational control
a bScope 1 Scope 2
Scope 1 and 2
emissions 50%
reduction by 2030
-50%
Net carbon
intensity 20%
reduction by 2030
-20%
79
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Governance of climate-related
risks and opportunities
Board oversight of climate-related risks and 
opportunities
Our governance framework is designed to effectively deliver on the 
energy transition ambitions of Shell's Powering Progress strategy.
 
For detailed information on our Powering Progress strategy refer to pages  7-9.
The Board reviews our energy transition strategy periodically 
and oversees its implementation and delivery. In 2022, the Board 
considered climate-related matters throughout the year, including 
the assessment of climate-related risks and the effectiveness of 
corresponding risk management activities, and challenged and 
endorsed business plans, including consideration of major capital 
expenditures, acquisitions and divestments. In 2022, the Board 
convened eight times and continued to oversee the Powering Progress 
strategy and net-zero initiatives, including at the Board Strategy Day 
in June 2022.
 
Find more information in "Governance" (Board activities on pages 150-152 and 
Board engagements in 2022 on pages 154-156).
Three Board committees provide primary oversight of the delivery 
of our energy transition strategy: the Safety, Environmental and 
Sustainability Committee (SESCo), the Audit Committee (AC) and the 
Remuneration Committee (REMCO). The importance of our energy 
transition strategy means that these committees are informed about 
climate-related matters on a frequent basis throughout the year. 
See "Climate change governance organogram" below.
The SESCo provides oversight of our technical delivery when it comes 
to reducing our carbon emissions, and the potential impacts and 
adaptation measures related to the physical risks of climate change. 
This includes reviewing our carbon management framework (CMF) and 
monitoring progress in reducing emissions to meet targets. The SESCo 
met five times in 2022 and discussed some aspects of climate-related 
matters at every meeting. After each meeting the SESCo Chair 
provided updates to the Board. 
 
For more information on the SESCo's activities in 2022, see pages 163-164. 
Our AC provides oversight of the effectiveness of the risk management 
framework and the integrity of our financial reporting to ensure that our 
financial statements reflect the risks and opportunities associated with 
our energy transition strategy and climate change. During 2022, the 
AC convened six times and discussed climate-related matters on 
each occasion. 
 
More information on our Audit Committee's activities in 2022 can be found in 
the Audit Committee Report on pages 165-177.
The REMCO develops our remuneration policy and sets performance 
conditions designed to challenge and support the Executive Committee 
to reduce net carbon emissions while maintaining shareholder value. 
The REMCO met five times during 2022, with climate-related matters 
discussed 
at each meeting.
 
Find more information on our Remuneration Committee’s activities in 2022 in the 
"Directors' Remuneration Report" on pages 178-182 and the "Annual Report on 
Remuneration" on page 184.
 
Climate performance and remuneration
Energy transition targets were part of the 2022 annual bonus 
scorecard (15% weighting) for almost all of Shell’s employees, 
as well as the 2022 Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards 
(10% weighting) and the 2022 Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
for senior executives (20% weighting), both vesting in 2025.
See "Directors' Remuneration Report" on pages 178-182 for further 
information.
 
Find additional information on the Board’s oversight in "Governance framework" 
on pages 148-149.
Management's role in assessing climate-related risks and opportunities
[A] Current structure which is subject to change with effect from July 1, 2023. See page 81 for more information.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
80 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Climate change governance organogram [A]
Shell plc Board
Oversight of climate change risk management
CEO
Strategy, 
Sustainability
and Corporate 
Relations Director
Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer
Projects and 
Technology
Director
Upstream
Director
Integrated Gas and 
Renewables and 
Energy Solutions 
Director
Downstream 
Director
Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee
Non-executive Directors appointed by the 
Board to review and advise on sustainability 
policies and practices including climate change
Audit Committee
Non-executive Directors appointed by 
the Board to oversee the effectiveness of 
the system of risk management and 
internal control
Internal Audit 
and Investigation
Remuneration Committee
Non-executive Directors appointed by 
the Board to set the remuneration policy 
in alignment with strategy
80
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) has the delegated authority from the 
Board to manage Shell’s actions in relation to the Company's strategy, 
which includes climate change. The CEO is assisted on climate-related 
matters by members of the Executive Committee to implement Shell's 
energy transition strategy and ensure that such matters are 
appropriately monitored:
▪ The Director of Strategy, Sustainability and Corporate Relations 
supports the CEO in developing Shell's energy transition strategy, 
including climate scenarios development, and augmenting our CMF. 
The CMF includes the setting of carbon budgets for our businesses, 
and the implementation of carbon management activities. 
▪ The Downstream Director is responsible for identifying and delivering 
climate-related opportunities, as well as managing and mitigating 
the climate risks of our existing Downstream businesses. The Sectors 
and Decarbonisation organisation supports the Downstream 
Director in implementing the sectoral decarbonisation approach.
▪ The Integrated Gas, Renewables and Energy Solutions Director is 
responsible for developing and advancing low-carbon solutions and 
opportunities, including those across our solar, hydrogen and wind 
businesses, as well as managing and reducing carbon emissions 
from our business.
▪ The Upstream Director is responsible for identifying and delivering 
low-carbon and emission-reduction opportunities in our oil and gas 
business. This includes managing and reducing our carbon emissions, 
for example, by reducing routine flaring and, in some cases, by using 
renewable energy to power our oil and gas extraction activities. 
▪ The Projects & Technology (P&T) Director is responsible for setting 
emissions, climate, and reporting standards that are applicable to all 
our businesses. The P&T Director is also responsible for developing 
new technologies that will help our businesses to deliver on net-zero 
emissions reduction targets through both energy efficiency measures 
and solutions geared towards decarbonisation. 
▪ The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) is responsible for monitoring the 
effective application of the Shell Control Framework, which provides 
the basis for managing our material risks including climate-related 
risks and opportunities, and the assurance over our financial 
information, carbon emissions and climate-related disclosures.
On January 30, 2023, Shell announced it would reduce the size of 
its Executive Committee from nine to seven members. The changes are 
expected to take effect from July 1, 2023. The Integrated Gas and 
Upstream businesses will be combined into a single Integrated Gas 
and Upstream Directorate. The Downstream business will be combined 
with Renewables and Energy Solutions to form a new Downstream and 
Renewables Directorate. The Strategy, Sustainability and Corporate 
Relations directorate will be discontinued, and Strategy, Sustainability 
and New Business Development will now report directly to the CFO. 
The new structure is aimed at enabling more streamlined planning and 
capital allocation decisions. The intention of this change is to simplify 
the organisation further and improve performance as we deliver our 
Powering Progress strategy. 
Additional supporting governance
There are two key supporting management committees, with 
representatives from across Shell, which play a critical role in 
driving our energy transition strategy:
▪ The Capital Investment Committee (CIC) facilitates portfolio 
management discussions and reviews each investment opportunity 
that is, due to its size, subject to approval by the CEO or the Board. 
These reviews ensure that the climate risks and opportunities, 
together with other defined criteria including shareholder value, are 
embedded in investment decision-making. This committee is made
up of senior executives, including the CEO, CFO, and individual 
business directors.
▪ The Carbon Reporting Committee (CRC) includes senior 
management representatives from business units, P&T climate-related 
disciplines and various functions, such as Strategy, Finance and 
Legal. This committee is tasked with ensuring that GHG emissions 
measures, both absolute emissions and carbon intensity, and 
associated metrics, comply with all regulatory and legal 
requirements. The CRC is responsible at Group level for the 
calculation methodologies and reporting of GHG emissions
metrics, and the review and approval of external disclosures.
In addition to these committees, our network of country chairs supports 
the overall governance and development and deployment of climate-
related initiatives. They facilitate the setting of each country’s plans 
in support of Powering Progress.
Processes by which management is informed about 
climate-related issues 
Several processes are employed across the organisation to ensure 
that management teams can effectively monitor and manage climate-
related matters. The management teams are helped by a combination 
of carbon-management-related standards and frameworks, forums 
at various levels of the organisation, and capability development 
programmes. These include our carbon management framework, 
carbon pricing, and the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) and Energy 
Management process, which forms part of our Health, Safety, Security, 
Environment and Social Performance (HSSE & SP) Control Framework.
 
Carbon management framework 
Shell's carbon management framework (CMF) helps us set 
carbon budgets in the operating plans for our businesses. The 
CMF seeks to manage and reduce emissions in a manner that is 
similar to how we use our financial framework. Carbon budgets 
are an effective measure for maintaining absolute emissions 
below a capped level, however achieving our intensity target 
is dependent on our energy product mix which is not driven 
by carbon budgets alone.
The CMF allows for carbon budgets to be allocated to our 
businesses and trade-offs between emitting carbon and 
generating shareholder value to occur within those budgets. 
The CMF helps inform portfolio decisions and support our 
decarbonisation targets. This provides leadership with the 
information required to make decisions on GHG reduction 
opportunities and portfolio choices required to achieve our 
decarbonisation targets.
For the 2022 operating plan cycle, our net carbon intensity 
(NCI) targets were translated into Scope 1, 2 and 3 (see 
definition on page 82) carbon budgets for each business. 
These budgets were used to optimise the operating plans 
for each business. 
Some examples of how our decarbonisation targets are taken 
into account in fundamental decisions across the organisation 
are as follows:
▪ Our businesses further embedded carbon emissions 
objectives in their respective Capital, Portfolio and Carbon 
forums. The forums consist of the most senior business 
management representatives who are responsible for active 
portfolio management through evaluation, and delivery of 
growth and divestment decisions.
▪ Certain assets are required to identify GHG abatement 
opportunities and reflect them in their annual business plans.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
81 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
81
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Greenhouse gas and energy management
Each Shell entity and Shell-operated venture is responsible 
for the development of its GHG emissions and energy 
management plans. 
Our Greenhouse Gas and Energy Management process sets 
out Shell's requirements for GHG reduction opportunities and 
portfolio choices to meet our carbon budgets and achieve 
our decarbonisation targets. These requirements allocate 
accountabilities for GHG and energy management within 
businesses, assets and projects, including responsibility for 
analysing our emissions, benchmarking performance, identifying 
improvement opportunities, and forecasting future performance. 
These requirements are applied to capital project delivery and 
through the asset-level annual business planning process, 
ensuring it is reflected in both opportunity realisation and 
strategic asset management planning.
A key aspect of the GHG and Energy Management process is 
the development of an energy efficiency and greenhouse gas 
reduction opportunity curve, economically assessed against the 
current and future costs of carbon. This information provides the 
basis for forecasts of absolute GHG emissions and associated 
intensities at the asset and project level. These forecasts are then 
aggregated to inform decisions on potential decarbonisation 
opportunities across our businesses.
A Global Process Council for GHG and Energy Management, 
led by the Global Process Owner for GHG and including 
business and functional experts, meets regularly to evaluate 
opportunities for the ongoing improvement of processes, tools, 
communications, and capabilities needed within the businesses 
to achieve our decarbonisation aspirations.
The requirements of our GHG & Energy Management Process 
are integrated into our annual business planning cycle.
 
Definition - Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions 
We follow the GHG Protocol’s Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard, which defines three scopes of 
GHG emissions:
▪ Scope 1: direct GHG emissions from sources under Shell's 
operational control.
▪ Scope 2: indirect GHG emissions from generation of 
purchased energy consumed by Shell assets under 
operational control.
▪ Scope 3: other indirect GHG emissions, including emissions 
associated with the use of energy products sold by Shell.
Carbon pricing
We consider the potential costs associated with operational 
GHG emissions when we assess the resilience of new projects. 
For each region, we have developed short-, medium- and long-
term estimates of future costs of carbon. These are reviewed 
and updated annually. See Note 4 to the "Consolidated 
Financial Statements" for further details on our regional 
cost of carbon estimates. 
Up to 2030, costs for carbon emissions estimates are largely 
policy driven through emission trading schemes or taxation 
levied by governments and which varies significantly on a 
country-by-country basis. Beyond 2030, where policy 
predictions are more challenging, the costs for carbon emissions 
are estimated based on the expected costs of abatement 
technologies required for 2050. The costs are estimated to be 
at $125 per tonne (RT 2022) under Shell’s mid-price scenario. 
Under a high-price scenario, the costs are set at $220 per tonne 
(RT 2022), the top of the bioenergy with CCS cost range and 
the lower end of the direct air capture cost range.
See "The resilience of Shell's strategy" on pages 88-89 for more information on how 
carbon costs impact Shell's resilience to climate-related risks, including sensitivity 
analysis.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
82 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
82
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Energy transition strategy
Powering Progress is our strategy to become a net-zero emissions 
energy business, purposefully and profitably. Powering Progress 
aims to deliver value for our shareholders, for our customers and 
for wider society.
 
For more information, see the "Our strategy" section on pages  7-9.
Our strategy aims to support the more ambitious 
goal of the Paris Agreement
Tackling climate change is an urgent challenge. It requires a 
fundamental transformation of the global economy and the 
energy system so that society stops adding to the total amount 
of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, achieving what is 
known as net-zero emissions. That is why Shell has set a target 
to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. 
To help us get there, we have set short-, medium- and long-term 
targets to reduce our carbon intensity, measured using our net 
carbon intensity (NCI) metric. For more information see "Setting 
targets for NCI" on page 99.
There is no established standard for aligning an energy 
supplier’s decarbonisation targets with the temperature limit 
goal of the Paris Agreement. In the absence of a broadly 
accepted standard, Shell has developed its own approach to 
demonstrate Paris alignment by setting carbon intensity targets 
within a pathway derived from scenarios from the IPCC Special 
Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C (SR 1.5), most of which 
show the global energy system reaching net zero between 
2040 and 2060. 
This pathway is aligned with the more ambitious temperature 
goal of the Paris Agreement to limit global mean temperature 
rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels by 2100. We believe 
our targets are aligned with the IPCC SR1.5 pathway. 
When constructing the pathway, we filtered out certain outlying 
IPCC scenarios to ensure that Shell’s targets are aligned with 
earlier action, and low-overshoot scenarios. Overshoot refers 
to the extent to which a scenario exceeds an emissions budget 
and subsequently relies on carbon sinks to compensate for the 
excess emissions.
Becoming a net-zero emissions energy business means reducing 
emissions from our operations, and from the fuels and other 
energy products, such as electricity, that we sell to our 
customers. It also means capturing and storing any remaining 
emissions using technology, protecting natural carbon sinks, 
and providing high quality carbon credits to our customers 
to compensate for hard-to-abate emissions.
An increasing number of countries and companies have 
announced targets to achieve net-zero emissions by the 
middle of the century, and we are starting to see some 
changes in the demand and supply of energy. However, 
achieving the 1.5 degrees Celsius goal will be challenging 
and requires unprecedented global collaboration. The pace 
of change will also vary around the world.
Climate-related risks and opportunities identified by Shell 
over the short, medium and long term
We are continually enhancing our strategic risk management approach 
to addressing climate-related risks. Our strategy is shaped in response 
to risks and opportunities identified across the customer sectors and 
regions we work in.
The process for identifying and assessing climate-related risks and 
opportunities is set out under "Climate Risk Management" below. Shell 
has identified climate change and the associated energy transition as 
a material risk based on societal concerns and developments related 
to climate change and managing GHG emissions. The risks could 
potentially result in changes to the demand for our products, our 
operational costs, supply chains, markets, the regulatory environment, 
our licence to operate, and litigation. The risks are composed of a 
combination of complex and interrelated elements that affect Shell’s 
overall business value chain, and our asset, product and business 
portfolio. The risk landscape is evolving rapidly. To achieve our 
emissions reduction targets, active holistic management of all climate-
related risk components is important. The composite risk is broken 
down into the following sub-components:
▪ commercial risk;
▪ regulatory risk;
▪ societal risk (including litigation risk); and
▪ physical risk.
We also seek to identify opportunities for Shell in the energy transition, 
from our existing position as a leading global energy provider. These 
risks and opportunities are described below and are also summarised 
in the "Risk factors" section of the Strategic Report on pages 15-26.
Time horizons: short, medium and long
Due to the inherent uncertainty, and the pervasive nature of the risks 
across our strategy and business model, we monitor climate-related 
risks and opportunities across multiple time horizons. 
▪ Short term (up to three years): we develop detailed financial 
projections and use them to manage performance and expectations 
on a three-year cycle. These projections incorporate decarbonisation 
measures required to meet our short-term targets.
▪ Medium term (generally three to 10 years): embedded within our 
operating plan, with our continued focus on the customer, the 
investments and portfolio shifts required in the medium term that 
will fundamentally reshape Shell’s portfolio. At the same time, our 
existing asset base is expected to provide the cash flow to finance 
this transition of our revenue in this period.
▪ Long term (generally beyond 10 years): it is expected that our 
portfolio and product mix will look very different, addressing the shift 
from an asset-based approach to a customer-based business model.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
83 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
83
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Transition risks
 
Climate-related commercial risk
▪ The transition to a low-carbon economy may lead to lower sales volumes and/or margins due to a 
general reduction or elimination of demand for oil and gas products, possibly resulting in underutilised 
or stranded oil and gas assets and a failure to secure new opportunities.
▪ Changing preferences of investors and financial institutions could reduce access to and increase the 
cost of capital.
Relevant time horizon:
medium and long
Potential material impacts on the organisation
Lower demand and margins for oil and 
gas products 
Changing customer sentiment towards renewable 
and sustainable energy products may reduce 
demand for our oil and gas products. An excess of 
supply over demand could reduce fossil fuel prices. 
This could be a factor contributing to additional 
provisions for our assets and result in lower 
earnings, cancelled projects and potential 
impairment of certain assets.
Changing preferences of investors and 
financial institutions
Financial institutions are increasingly aligning 
their portfolios to a low-carbon and net-zero world, 
driven by both regulatory and broader stakeholder 
pressures. A failure to decarbonise the business 
portfolios in line with investor and lender 
expectations could have a material adverse effect 
on our ability to use financing for certain types 
of projects. This could also adversely affect our 
potential partners’ ability to finance their portion 
of costs, either through equity or debt.
Sensitivity analysis of a 1% shift in Shell's weighted 
average cost of capital on asset carrying values is 
presented in 'Carbon pricing and discount rate 
sensitivities' on page 89.
Remaining in step with the pace and 
extent of the energy transition
The energy transition provides us with significant 
opportunities, as described in the "Transition 
opportunities" below. If we fail to stay in step with the 
pace and extent of change or customers' and other 
stakeholders’ demand for low-carbon products, this 
could adversely affect our reputation and future 
earnings. If we move much faster than society, we 
risk investing in technologies, markets or low-carbon 
products that are unsuccessful. Therefore we cannot 
transition too quickly or we will be trying to sell 
products that customers do not want. This could also 
have a material adverse effect on financial results.
Technology and innovation are essential to our 
efforts to help meet the world’s energy demands 
competitively. If we are unable to develop the 
right technology and products in a timely and cost-
effective manner, or if we develop technologies, 
products and solutions that harm the environment or 
people’s health, there could be an adverse effect on 
our future earnings. 
Climate-related regulatory risk
The transition to a low-carbon economy will likely increase the cost of compliance for our assets and/or 
products, and may include restrictions on the use of hydrocarbons. The lack of net-zero-aligned global and 
national policies and frameworks increases the uncertainty around this risk.
Relevant time horizon:
short, medium, and long
Potential material impacts on the organisation
Increased compliance costs 
Some governments have introduced carbon-pricing 
mechanisms, which we believe can be an effective 
way to reduce GHG emissions across the economy 
at the lowest overall cost to society. 
Shell’s cost of compliance with the EU Emissions 
Trading Scheme (ETS) and related schemes was 
around $493 million in 2022, as recognised in 
Shell’s Consolidated Statement of Income for 2022. 
A further $3,512 million of costs were incurred in 
respect of biofuels ($2,918 million) and renewable 
power ($594 million) programmes (see Note 5 to 
the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 
261-262). 
Shell’s annual carbon cost exposure is expected to 
increase over the next decade because of evolving 
carbon regulations. The forecasted annual cost 
exposure in 2023 is estimated to be around $0.8 
billion and around $1.5 billion in 2032. This estimate 
is based on a forecast of Shell’s equity share of 
emissions from operated and non-operated assets 
(including joint ventures and associates), and real-term 
carbon cost estimates using the mid-price scenario 
(see Note 4 to the "Consolidated Financial 
Statements" on pages 252-260 for more information). 
This exposure also takes into account the estimated 
impact of free allowances as relevant to assets 
based on their location. 
Restrictions on use of hydrocarbons
Around 90% of the global economy is now signed 
up to net-zero commitments as of
 June 2022, 
according to the Energy and Climate Intelligence 
Unit. This brings an increasing risk that governments 
set future regulatory frameworks that restrict further 
exploration and production of hydrocarbons, and 
bring in controls to limit the use of such products. 
Failure to replace proved reserves could result in an 
accelerated decrease of future production, which 
could have a material adverse effect on our 
earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 
Lack of net-zero-aligned global and 
national policies and frameworks 
The lack of net-zero-aligned global and national 
policies and frameworks increases the uncertainty 
around how carbon pricing and other regulatory 
mechanisms will be implemented in the future. This 
makes it harder to determine the appropriate 
assumptions to be taken into account in our financial 
planning and investment decision processes.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
84 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
84
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Transition risks continued
 
Climate-related societal risk (including litigation risk)
As societal expectations develop around climate change, there is a potential impact on Shell’s licence 
to operate, reputation, brand and competitive position. This is likely to include litigation.
Relevant time horizon:
short, medium and long
Potential material impacts on the organisation
Decline in reputation and brand
Societal expectations of businesses are increasing, 
with a focus on business ethics, quality of products, 
contribution to society, safety and minimising 
damage to the environment. There is an increasing 
focus on the role of the oil and gas sector in the 
context of climate change and the energy 
transition. This could negatively affect our brand, 
reputation and licence to operate, which could limit 
our ability to deliver our strategy, reduce consumer 
demand for our branded and non-branded 
products, harm our ability to secure new resources 
and contracts, and restrict our ability to access 
capital markets or attract staff.
Deteriorating relationships with key 
stakeholders
Failure to decarbonise Shell’s value chain in 
line with societal, governmental and investor 
expectations is a material risk to Shell’s reputation 
as a responsible and market-leading energy 
company. The impact of this risk includes 
shareholder divestment, greater regulatory 
scrutiny and potential asset closure resulting 
from public interest groups' protests.
Litigation
There is an increasing risk to oil and gas companies 
from public, private and governmental lawsuits. 
Such action may have wide-ranging consequences, 
including forcing entities to hand over strategic 
autonomy in part to regulators, divest from 
hydrocarbon technologies, denial of regulatory 
approvals and/or paying fines/penalties or large 
compensation packages to the plaintiff.
In some countries, governments, regulators, 
organisations and individuals have filed lawsuits of 
a wide variety, including seeking to hold oil and gas 
companies liable for costs associated with climate 
change, or seeking court-ordered reductions in 
emissions, challenging the regulatory approvals and 
operating licenses, or challenging energy transition 
strategies and plans. While we believe these lawsuits 
to be without merit, losing could have a material 
adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and 
financial condition. 
For example, in May 2021, the District Court in The 
Hague, the Netherlands, ruled that, by end 2030, 
Shell must reduce, from its consolidated subsidiaries, 
its aggregate net Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 45%, 
compared with 2019 levels. The Scope 1 component 
is a results-based obligation and the Scope 2 and 3 
components are a significant best efforts obligation. 
In 2019, our Scope 1 emissions from our consolidated 
subsidiaries were 86 million tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalent (CO
2e) (rounded) (financial control basis).
Physical risks
Climate-related physical risk
The potential physical effects of climate change may impact Shell’s assets, operations, supply chains, 
employees and markets.
Relevant time horizon:
short, medium and long
Potential material impacts on the organisation
Mitigation of physical risks, whether or not related 
to climate change, is considered and embedded in 
the design and construction of assets. The potential 
impact of physical changes comes from both acute 
and chronic physical risks.
Acute risks, such as flooding and droughts, wildfires 
and more severe tropical storms, and chronic risks, 
such as rising temperatures and rising sea levels, 
could potentially impact some of our facilities, 
operations and supply chains. The frequency of 
these hazards and impacts is expected to increase 
in certain high-risk locations. Extreme weather 
events, whether or not related to climate change, 
could have a negative impact on our earnings, 
cash flows and financial conditions.
We have performed a limited analysis addressing a 
range of typical climate change features for a select 
group of assets. As this is an emerging area of risk 
assessment, we aim to deepen our understanding 
of these potential future risks. 
Additionally, the impact of physical climate change 
on our operations is unlikely to be limited to the 
boundaries of our assets. The overall impact 
including how supply chains, resource availability 
and markets may be affected also needs to be 
considered for a holistic assessment of this risk. Our 
assets manage this risk as part of broad risk and 
threat management processes as required by our 
HSSE & SP Control Framework.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
85 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
85
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Transition opportunities
 
Climate-related opportunities
The transition to a low-carbon economy also brings significant opportunities for us to benefit from changing 
customer demands, given our position as a leading global energy provider.
Relevant time horizon:
short, medium and long
Potential material impacts on the organisation
As the global energy mix changes, our current infrastructure, know-how and global footprint put us in an ideal position to service the changing energy demands 
of the market. Our research and development (R&D) activities are key to achieving our net-zero emissions target. 
As we shift from an asset-based to a customer-focused 
business model our current key focus areas for seizing this 
opportunity are:
1. Renewables and Energy Solutions
This encompasses our wind, solar, hydrogen, electric vehicle 
charging, nature-based solutions, and carbon capture and 
storage businesses. Electricity generated by wind and solar 
power plays a direct role in reducing emissions in passenger 
transport and parts of industry. It can also be used to create 
hydrogen. We expect hydrogen to present a business 
opportunity for heavy-duty road freight over a shorter time 
horizon and within shipping, industry and, possibly, aviation, 
over a longer time horizon. Hydrogen also has the potential 
to become a material part of Shell’s business-to-business 
(B2B) operations, as heavy industry begins to transition 
away from energy sourced from hydrocarbons.
In 2022, Shell announced the final investment decision to 
build Holland Hydrogen 1, a 200 MW electrolyser that will 
be constructed on the Tweede Maasvlakte in the Port of 
Rotterdam and is expected to produce up to 60,000 
kilograms of renewable hydrogen per day.
In 2022, Shell's spending on CCS opportunities (operating 
expenses and cash capital expenditure) amounted to 
around $220 million, an increase of 51% from the $146 
million in 2021. Shell’s equity share of captured and stored 
CO
2 was around 0.4 million tonnes in 2022, in line with the 
2021 amount.
2. Biofuels
Shell and the non-operated joint venture Raízen 
(Shell interest 44%) are together one of the 
world’s largest blenders and distributors of 
biofuels. Shell plans to continue to invest in and 
increase the production of these low-carbon fuels. 
Our low-carbon fuels projects and operations 
around the world form part of a wider commitment 
to provide a range of energy choices for 
customers. For example, we believe that 
sustainable aviation fuels (SAF) provide the most 
effective way of reducing emissions within the 
aviation sector, with wider adoption of SAF 
enabling us to provide more low-carbon fuels to 
our customers. Biofuels may also present 
opportunities in the shipping, road freight and 
other sectors.
Together with our customers, we are working on 
changing energy demand and developing ways 
to help increase the use of low-carbon fuels and 
decrease carbon emissions from this sector. 
Meanwhile, on the supply side, in Rotterdam in the 
Netherlands, Shell is building an 820,000-tonnes-a-
year biofuels facility. This is expected to be among 
the largest in Europe producing sustainable 
aviation fuel and renewable diesel made from 
waste and certified sustainable vegetable oils.
3. Natural gas
Demand for liquefied natural gas (LNG) is 
expected to grow. As one of the world’s largest 
suppliers of liquefied natural gas (LNG), with 
around 40 million tonnes of equity capacity, we 
can ship natural gas to where it is needed. LNG 
plays an important role in enabling countries to 
replace coal-fired power generation with a less 
carbon-intensive alternative. Shell seeks to provide 
more affordable, reliable and cleaner energy to 
our customers. In 2022, we produced gas for the 
first time from the Shell-operated Colibri project in 
Trinidad and Tobago. While the majority of 
Colibri’s gas will be exported as LNG, around 
25% will be used to power local homes and 
businesses. 
4. Transforming refineries into energy 
and chemicals parks
An important aim of our Powering Progress 
strategy is to transform refineries into energy and 
chemicals parks so that we can sell more low-
carbon and sustainable products. 
Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on 
Shell's businesses, strategy and financial planning
The transformation of the energy system to net-zero emissions will 
require simultaneous action in three areas – an unprecedented 
improvement in the efficiency with which energy is used, a sharp 
reduction in the carbon intensity of the energy mix, and the mitigation 
of residual emissions using technology and natural sinks. While it is 
difficult to predict the exact combination of actions that will deliver 
the net-zero goal, scenarios help us to consider the variables and 
the potential direction and pace of the transition needed.
We have been developing scenarios within Shell for almost 50 years, 
helping Shell leaders to explore ways forward and make better 
decisions. Shell scenarios are designed to stretch management’s 
thinking when it comes to considering events that may be remotely 
possible. Scenarios help management make choices in times
of uncertainty and transition as we grapple with tough energy and 
environmental issues. They are aligned to different energy transition 
pathways and help in decision-making by guiding the identification
of risks and opportunities. 
Different socio-economic and technological parameters are used
to construct these scenarios, such as:
▪ sectoral and regional energy demand;
▪ future trajectory of oil consumption and demand for natural gas; 
▪ renewable electricity demand and the pace of the electrification
of the global energy system;
▪ supply of solar and wind energy;
▪ pace of uptake of electric vehicles;
▪ demand for biofuels;
▪ growth of the hydrogen economy;
▪ level of carbon capture and storage (CCS); 
▪ deployment of lower-carbon energy technologies; and
▪ global trade of oil and gas.
Management consideration of different climate change outcomes 
informs a range of areas including, but not limited to, the setting of the 
long-term strategy, business planning, and investment and divestment 
decisions. The outcomes considered by management vary in relation
to the extent and pace of the energy transition.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
86 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
86
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Impact on strategic planning
The application of scenario analysis informs our assessment of the 
impact of a wide range of risks and opportunities, including climate-
change related issues, on our strategy and business planning, both at 
the Group and business unit levels. At the Group level, the potential 
impacts of the energy transition on our business model are discussed 
and assessed at the Board and the Executive Committee level as part 
of the annual strategic and business planning cycle. This assessment 
allows us to challenge accepted ways of thinking, identify material 
risks and opportunities, and identify key tensions and trade-offs.
Key financial and non-financial components of 
business planning
The Board approves our annual business plan. The plan 
contains operational and financial metrics, and its objective 
is to drive the delivery of our Powering Progress strategy. 
Decarbonisation targets are key to our business planning 
process. Each business owner offers viable Scope 1, 2 and 3 
reduction opportunities as part of this process, in line with the 
CMF (see page 81).
The business plan is underpinned by assumptions about internal 
and external parameters and includes: 
▪ commodity prices;
▪ refining margins;
▪ production levels and product demand;
▪ exchange rates; 
▪ future carbon costs;
▪ the schedules of capital investment programmes; and 
▪ risks and opportunities that may have material impacts 
on free cash flow.
These assumptions are developed with input from our scenarios 
and internal estimates and outlooks. The level of uncertainty 
around these assumptions increases over longer time horizons.
Impact on business and financial planning
There is no single scenario that underpins Shell’s business and 
financial planning. Scenarios are not intended to be predictions of 
likely future events or outcomes and, therefore, are not the basis for 
Shell’s operating plans and financial statements. Our scenarios help 
in developing our future oil and gas pricing outlooks. The oil and 
gas pricing outlooks takes account of factors relating to the energy 
transition, such as potential changes in supply and demand (see details 
of scenario parameters above). The low-, medium- and high-pricing 
outlooks are prepared by a team of experts, reviewed by the Shell 
Executive Committee, and approved by the CEO and CFO. The 
medium pricing outlook represents management’s reasonable best 
estimate and is the basis for Shell's financial statements, operating 
plans and impairment testing. 
Shell’s targets to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 50% by 
2030, compared with 2016 levels on a net basis (i.e. including carbon 
credits), and 20% reduction in net carbon intensity by 2030 have been 
included in Shell's operating plan. We will continue to update our 
business plan, price outlooks and assumptions as we move towards
net-zero emissions by 2050.
As described in "Climate-related risks and opportunities identified by 
Shell over the short, medium and long term", the low-pricing outlooks 
could result in increased commercial, regulatory and societal risks, 
as well as transition opportunities. How these risks are prioritised is 
described in "Shell's processes for identifying and assessing climate-
related risks". Given our target to become a net-zero emissions energy 
business by 2050, the use of low-pricing outlooks is a part of our 
resilience testing and resulting actions. 
Our strategy and national net-zero commitments
In line with LR 9.8.6FG, we have considered the extent to which 
country-level net zero commitments have been considered in 
developing our transition plan.
Our Powering Progress strategy aims to deliver a net-zero 
emissions energy business by 2050. The pace of the energy 
transition will be heavily influenced by government policy, 
creating a strong country and regional dimension in seeking 
to deliver the aims of the Paris Agreement. Our commitment 
is a global one and, as such, we look to deliver our strategy 
through a global lens.
We seek to translate our energy transition strategy into specific 
targets and plans at a business segment level, ensuring we take 
capital deployment and portfolio decisions in the context of the 
globally integrated nature of our operations. However, we 
continue to recognise the importance of engagement and 
collaboration in delivering the fundamental changes to the 
energy system that are required. This includes supporting and 
advocating for policies that aim to reduce carbon emissions 
and working with governments and other stakeholders in the 
development of policy that supports the transition to a lower-
carbon energy system. As national transition plans develop, 
consideration will be given to the impact on our operations and 
the associated implications for our energy transition strategy.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
87 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
87
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Resilience of Shell's strategy to different
climate-related scenarios
Shell’s financial strength and access to capital give us the ability 
to reshape our portfolio as the energy system transforms. They also 
allow us to withstand volatility in oil and gas markets.
We continue to optimise our capital allocation balancing energy 
security and demand, as well as internal and external transition 
considerations and opportunities. We aim to find the right balance 
between managing our upstream assets – which provide the vital 
supplies of oil and gas that the world needs today and  produce the 
returns needed to help us fund the transition – and investing in the 
energy transition. These activities are essential to identify, build and 
scale up profitable projects that offer low-carbon energy solutions for 
our customers.
From January 1, 2022, we have disclosed the financial performance
of our Renewables and Energy Solutions (R&ES) segment. R&ES 
is a business through which we seek to develop commercial 
opportunities which will be key in supporting the delivery of
our net-zero emissions target.
 
See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements "Segment Information" 
on pages 265-269 for more information.
 Cash capital expenditure evolution by segment
 Operational expenditure evolution by segment
Cash capital expenditure by segment for 2023 is expected to be 
in the range of $8 billion for Upstream, $6 billion for Marketing, 
$5 billion for Integrated Gas, $3-4 billion for Chemicals and 
Products, and $2-4 billion for R&ES.
Investing through the energy transition
Total cash capital expenditure of $25 billion in 2022
[A] Products for which usage does not cause Scope 3, Category 11 emissions: Lubricants, 
Chemicals, Convenience Retailing, Agriculture & Forestry, Construction & Road.
[B] E-Mobility and Electric Vehicle Charging Services, Low-Carbon Fuels (Biofuels/HEFA), 
Renewable Power Generation (Solar/Wind), Environmental Solutions, Hydrogen, CCUS. 
We define low-carbon energy products as those that have an average carbon intensity 
that is lower than conventional hydrocarbon products, assessed on a lifecycle basis 
(including emissions from production, processing, distribution and end use). 
[C] LNG Production & Trading, Gas & Power Trading, and Energy Marketing.
[D] Upstream segment, GTL, Refining & Trading, Marketing fuel and hydrocarbon sales, 
Shell Ventures, Corporate segment.
Movements in cash capital expenditure versus 2021 were as follows:
▪ 'Non-energy products' reduced by 9% (from $4.2 billion in 2021) 
mainly through lower spend at Shell Polymers Monaca as 
construction came to completion. 
▪ 'Low-carbon energy solutions' increased by 89% (from $2.3 billion 
in 2021) mainly through higher investments in renewable power 
generation, low-carbon fuels, and e-mobility. 
▪ 'LNG, gas and power marketing and trading' increased by 
17% (from $3.6 billion in 2021) reflecting investment in the 
North Field East expansion project in Qatar. 
▪ 'Oil, oil products and other' increased by 30% (from $9.6 billion 
in 2021) mainly through our Upstream deepwater operations, 
including the acquisition of a 25% stake in the Atapu field in Brazil.
Key aspects of Shell’s financial resilience in the context of climate-
related impacts are assessed and described in more detail in Note 4
to the "Consolidated Financial Statements". This describes how Shell 
has considered climate-related impacts in key areas of the financial 
statements and how this translates into the valuation of assets and 
measurement of liabilities. Shell’s financial statements are based on 
reasonable and supportable assumptions that represent management’s 
best estimate of the range of economic conditions that may exist in the 
foreseeable future. 
Sensitivity analysis using external, and often normative, climate 
scenarios has been performed for the period covering asset life cycles. 
If these different price outlooks were used, this would impact the 
recoverability of certain assets recognised in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet as at December 31, 2022.
As there is no single scenario that underpins our plans, sensitivity 
analysis has been conducted using a range of key assumptions to 
test the resilience of our asset base. This includes sensitivity analysis 
on asset carrying values using commodity price outlooks from external 
and often normative climate change scenarios; shifting trends in our 
portfolio, particularly exploration and evaluation, Upstream production 
and refineries; risks related to stranded assets; resilience of investments 
for transformation of the refining portfolio into five energy and 
chemicals parks; forecasted taxable profits sufficient to recover 
deferred tax assets; dividend resilience; and limited risk on timing 
of decommissioning and restoration activities for Integrated Gas 
and Upstream. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
88 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Cash capital expenditure evolution
a b c
20222021
18%b
31%a
12%c
26%d
12%e
1%f
20%
15%
14%
1%
Upstream MarketingIntegrated Gas
d e fChemicals & 
Products
CorporateRenewables 
& Energy Solutions
33%
17%
Operational expenditure evolution
a b c
20222021
12%b
29%a
21%c
29%d
8%e
1%f
21%
29%
9%
1%
Upstream MarketingIntegrated Gas
d e fChemicals & 
Products
CorporateRenewables 
& Energy Solutions
27%
13%
Non-energy
products [A]
Low-carbon
energy solutions [B]
LNG, gas and power
marketing and trading [C]
Oil, oil products
and other [D]
$3.9 billion $4.3 billion
$4.2 billion $12.5 billion
88
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Commodity price sensitivities
Oil and gas prices are one of the key assumptions that underpin Shell’s 
financial statements, with the mid-price outlook informed by Shell’s 
scenario planning representing management’s best estimate. Price 
outlooks reflect a broad range of factors, including, but not limited 
to, future supply and demand, and the pace of growth of low-carbon 
solutions. The scenarios have been selected to illustrate the resilience of 
the asset base under a range of possible outcomes, including the price 
implications arising from the IEA Net Zero Emissions scenario which 
provides a potential path for the global energy system to net-zero 
emissions by 2050. Sensitivities of asset carrying amounts to prices 
are under the assumption that all other factors in the models used 
to calculate impacts remain unchanged. 
Sensitivity analysis has been performed using price outlooks from:
1. Average prices from three 1.5-2 degrees Celsius external climate 
change scenarios. In view of the broad range of price outlooks 
across the various scenarios, the average of three external price 
outlooks was taken from IHS Markit/ACCS 2022; Woodmac 
WM AET-1.5 degree; and IEA NZE50.
Applying these prices to Integrated Gas assets of $75 billion and 
Upstream assets of $88 billion as at December 31, 2022, shows 
recoverable amounts that are $4-6 billion
 and $1-2 billion lower, 
respectively, than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2022. 
2. Hybrid Shell Plan and IEA NZE50: for this Shell’s mid-price outlook is 
applied for the next 10 years. Because of greater uncertainty, the IEA 
normative Net Zero Emissions scenario is applied for the period after 
10 years. This weights less price-risk uncertainty to the first 10 years 
reflected in the operating plan period and applies more risk to the 
more uncertain subsequent periods. 
Applying this priceline to Integrated Gas assets of $75 billion and 
Upstream assets of $88 billion as at December 31, 2022, shows 
recoverable amounts that ar
e $4-6 billion and $1-2 billion lower, 
respectively, than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2022.
3. For 2022, we have also included sensitivities based on a 1.5 degree 
scenario, derived from IEA NZE50. This priceline applies the IEA 
normative Net Zero Emissions scenario over the whole period under 
review. This priceline has been applied for the first time in the current 
year in order to also reflect the sensitivity to a pure net-zero 
emissions scenario from the IEA. 
Applying this priceline to Integrated Gas assets of $75 billion
 and 
Upstream assets of $88 billion as at December 31, 2022, shows 
recoverable amounts that are $9-12 billion and $8-11 billion lower, 
respectively, than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2022.
In addition, further sensitivities are provided of -10% or +10% to Shell's 
mid-price outlook, as an average percentage over the full period. 
A change of -10% or +10% to the mid-price outlook, as an average 
percentage over the full period, would result in around $2-5 billion 
impairment or some $2-4 billion impairment reversal, respectively, 
in Integrated Gas and Upstream as at December 31, 2022.
Compared with the prior year the impact on recoverable amounts is 
significantly lower as a result of the higher short- and medium-term 
commodity prices.
Carbon pricing and discount rate sensitivities
The risk of stranded assets may increase in a higher carbon price 
scenario. Sensitivities of our asset carrying values to carbon prices have 
been based on an IEA NZE 2050 scenario, to illustrate the resilience 
of asset carrying values to higher long-term carbon prices than those 
included in the Shell mid-price outlook.
Applying the IEA NZE 2050 carbon price scenario to Integrated Gas 
assets of $75 billion and Upstream assets of $88 billion, up to the end 
of life of these assets, shows recoverable amounts that are $2-5 billion 
and not significantly lower, respectively, than the carrying amounts as 
at December 31, 2022.
 
See "Carbon pricing" on page 82 for more information on our carbon price 
assumptions.
The discount rate applied for impairment testing is based on a 
nominal post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 5% 
for Power activities and a nominal post-tax WACC of 6.5% for all 
other businesses. The discount rate includes generic systematic climate 
change risk. In addition, cash flow projections applied in individual 
assets include specific asset risks. An increase in systematic climate 
risk could lead to a higher WACC and consequently to a higher 
discount rate to be applied in impairment testing. We have used a 1% 
shift in discount rate for sensitivity analysis purposes as an indicator 
of the resilience of our asset base to incremental increases in our 
cost of capital.
An increase of the WACC of 1% under the assumption that all other 
factors in the models used to calculate recoverability of carrying 
amounts remain unchanged would lead to an impairment of $1-3 billion 
for Integrated Gas and up to $1 billion in each of the following 
segments: Upstream, Chemicals and Products, and Renewables and 
Energy Solutions. No significant impairment would arise in the 
Marketing segment.
 
See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 252 for further 
information on climate-related impacts in key areas of the financial statements.
Delivering our energy transition strategy
To ensure the resilience of our Powering Progress strategy, our 
responses to the risks and opportunities identified are: 
▪ delivery through our integrated business model;
▪ a sectoral decarbonisation approach – recognising that we need 
to work with our customers to identify low-carbon energy solutions 
for their energy demands; and
▪ decarbonisation of our energy value chains and operations.
Our net-zero target includes emissions from our operations, and the life-
cycle emissions from all the energy products we sell. We will seek to 
reduce emissions fr
om our own operations, including the production 
of oil and gas. More than 90% of the total emissions we include within 
the NCI boundary are indirect emissions associated with third-party 
products and end use emissions of energy products we sell, so we 
are also working with our customers to support them in transitioning 
to low-carbon products and services.
Our integrated approach allows us to withstand volatility in oil and 
gas markets. Our financial framework is based on sector-leading 
cash flow, continued capital discipline, capital flexibility and a strong 
balance sheet.
▪ Upstream delivers the cash and returns needed to fund our 
shareholder distributions and the transformation of our portfolio, and 
provides vital supplies of oil and natural gas to help meet the world's 
energy needs.
▪ Integrated Gas and Chemicals and Products make the products 
needed to help enable the energy transition. They produce 
sustainable cash flow and provide us with the asset infrastructure to 
support our investments in the future of energy.
▪ Marketing and R&ES include service stations, sales of gasoline and 
diesel, fuels for business customers, power, hydrogen, biofuels, 
charging for electric vehicles, carbon credits, and development of 
commercial CCS. They focus on working with our customers to help 
accelerate the transition to net zero and are the foundation for the 
future businesses in Shell.
 
See "Outlook" for more information on page 13.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
89 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
89
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Our research and development (R&D) activities are also key to 
achieving our net-zero emissions target. They are an important way 
to address the technology risk as mentioned in the "Transition risk 
and opportunities" section. 
In 2022, our R&D expenditure on projects that contributed to 
decarbonisation was around $440 million, representing about 
41% of our total R&D spend, compared with around 40% in 2021. 
This includes expenditure on reducing greenhouse gas emissions:
▪ for our customers through renewable power generation, storage,
e-mobility and other electrification solutions;
▪ from our own operations, for example, by improving energy 
efficiency and electrification; 
▪ from the fuels and other products we sell to our customers - for 
example, biofuels, synthetic fuels and products made from low-
carbon electricity, and hydrogen produced using renewable sources;
▪ by carbon capture, utilisation and storage applied to hydrogen 
production from natural gas and other carbon emissions; and
▪ by researching nature-based solutions to offset emissions.
Examples of R&D activities other than decarbonisation include safety, 
performance products such as lubricants and polymers, robotics, 
automation and artificial intelligence. 
Supporting our customers in achieving net-zero emissions
Changes to the supply of energy products and decarbonising the 
energy system require structural changes in the end-use of energy. 
This requires energy users to improve, update or replace equipment 
so that they can use carbon-based energy more efficiently, or switch 
to low- and zero-carbon energy. 
For example, in the transport sector, decarbonisation includes 
replacing internal combustion engine vehicles with electric and 
hydrogen vehicles. In the industrial sector, replacing oil- and coal-fired 
furnaces with electrical furnaces would be one solution, carbon capture 
and storage is another. And in the buildings sector, replacing gas 
heating systems with electric heating systems would also contribute 
to decarbonisation.
Such structural changes will help to trigger transitions along the supply 
chain of individual sectors and across sectors, including the production 
of energy and emissions over time. The IEA estimates that these 
changes in the end-use of energy will require substantial investment. 
Under the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario, for every one US 
dollar spent on fossil fuels, a further five US dollars need to be spent 
on clean energy and a further four US dollars spent on efficiency 
and end-uses.
Helping to transform energy demand is the focus of our 
decarbonisation strategy. To help transform demand, we are working 
with customers sector-by-sector across the energy system. We will seek 
to change the mix of energy products we sell to our customers as their 
needs for energy change. This is reflected in Shell's strategy to develop 
a portfolio that seeks to:
▪ provide more electricity to customers, while also driving a shift to 
renewable electricity;
▪ develop low- and zero-carbon alternatives to traditional fuel, 
including biofuels, hydrogen, and other low- and zero-carbon gases;
▪ work with customers across different sectors to decarbonise their use 
of energy; and
▪ address any remaining emissions from conventional fuels with 
solutions such as CCS and carbon credits.
Energy transition in action - selection of portfolio 
changes and actions in 2022:
Electricity and renewable power
▪ acquisition of Sprng Energy Group, a solar and wind 
platform in India;
▪ winning bids with our partners to build offshore wind farms 
in the UK, the Netherlands and US waters (December: 
Hollandse Kust west VI with Eneco; July: with Scottish 
Power in the UK; February: Atlantic Shores in the USA);
▪ the acquisition of Powershop Australia, an online energy 
retailer; and 
▪ started operations at the power-to-hydrogen electrolyser 
in China.
Develop low- and zero-carbon alternatives to 
traditional fuels
▪ acquisition of Denmark's Nature Energy - the largest 
producer of renewable natural gas in Europe, completed 
on February 20, 2023;
▪ final investment decision to build a 200 MW electrolyser, 
Holland Hydrogen I (Shell interest 100%);
▪ agreement to buy sugar-cane ethanol under a long-term 
agreement with Raízen (Shell interest 44%). The low-carbon 
fuel is expected to be produced by five plants that Raízen 
plans to build in Brazil, bringing its total portfolio of ethanol 
facilities to nine; and
▪ began construction of a bio-LNG plant at the Energy and 
Chemicals Park Rheinland in Germany to make liquefied 
natural gas from biological waste.
Help customers to decarbonise their use of energy
▪ launched a programme with our partners called Avelia which 
will encourage companies to invest in the production of SAF;
▪ made progress rolling out our network of charging for electric 
vehicles and joint venture with Chinese automobile company 
BYD to operate a network of charging points in Shenzhen; 
and
▪ acquisition of German company SBRS GmbH, which 
provides electric charging services for e-buses, e-trucks and 
e-vans. This is a step towards decarbonising the commercial 
road transport sector.
CCS and carbon credits 
▪ Agreement with Northern Lights CCS joint venture (Shell 
interest 33.3%) in Norway and Yara for a world-first cross-
border carbon capture, transport and storage contract. 
▪ Investment in Carbonext, a Brazilian company operating 
carbon-centric preservation projects in the Amazon.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
90 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
90
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Because emissions resulting from customer use of our energy products 
make up the greatest percentage of Shell's carbon emissions, this is 
where we believe we can make the greatest contribution to the energy 
transition, by enabling our customers to transition to low-carbon energy 
products and services. We intend to increase our share of low-carbon 
energy sales, which is reflected in our target to reduce the NCI of the 
energy products we sell by 20% between 2016 and 2030.
 
See "Working to reduce our net carbon intensity" for more information 
on page 100.
We have restructured our company so that we can better identify 
opportunities and the role that we can play in each sector to help 
transform demand. We are moving from an approach focused on types 
of products to one where our customer and account management is 
focused on sectors.
We aim to build on our existing relationships across each sector, with 
consumers, infrastructure owners, other suppliers and policymakers 
to help to accelerate change.
Our strategic approach to climate change emphasises the need 
to work collaboratively. We aim to make strategic alliances with 
customers, other companies and entire sectors so we and they 
can make profitable progress towards net zero.
Collaborating with our customers
We are helping software company SAP move to an emissions-
free global car fleet by 2030 in support of its net-zero targets. 
Through our Accelerate to Zero programme, Shell is providing 
on-the-go and home charging, as well as other fleet solutions, 
for SAP employees in several countries. At SAP’s headquarters 
in Walldorf, Germany, we are working to build solar generation 
capacity to help the company decarbonise and become more 
self-reliant in its energy use.
As a founding member of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) we 
are part of a group of 12 national and international energy companies. 
The OGCI supports the climate goals of the UN Paris Agreement and 
recognises that collective actions will help drive the energy transition.
Decarbonising our value chains and operations
We will seek to base the decarbonisation of our value chains and 
operations on a deep understanding of the decarbonisation strategies 
and plans of our customers and users of our energy products. We are 
focused on decarbonising our own operations by:
▪ making portfolio changes, such as acquisitions of and investments 
in new, low-carbon projects. We are also decommissioning plants, 
divesting assets and reducing our production through the natural 
decline of existing oil and gas fields;
▪ improving the energy efficiency of our operations;
▪ transforming our remaining integrated refineries into low-carbon 
energy and chemicals parks, which involves decommissioning plants;
▪ using more renewable electricity to power our operations;
▪ developing CCS for our facilities; and, if required, 
▪ using high-quality carbon credits to compensate for any remaining 
emissions from our operations.
We have set an interim target to achieve a 50% reduction in absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions under our operational control by 2030 on a 
net basis, when compared with 2016.
 
See "Working to reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions" for more 
information on page 100.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
91 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
91
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Climate risk management
Shell's processes for identifying and assessing
climate-related risks
Identifying climate-related risks
As discussed in "Energy transition strategy", Shell considers climate 
change and GHG emissions a material risk factor. We monitor the 
risks related to these across four components:
▪ commercial risks;
▪ regulatory risks;
▪ societal risks (including litigation risk); and 
▪ physical risks.
These components are monitored and assessed on an integrated 
basis, necessitated by the interdependence of the risks and the related 
actions. The different components pose different kinds of exposures 
spanning different time horizons. Similarly, the responses to the 
components of the risk are also planned by taking a holistic view.
For example, the increasing cost of complying with emission limits
in some regions is a regulatory risk that may require operational 
responses in the near term. The reduction in demand for legacy 
hydrocarbons is a commercial risk that may have a medium- to long-
term impact, demanding changes to our strategic portfolio and 
business models. The risk of physical impacts of climate change may 
occur in the short, medium and long term and would require actions
to mitigate adverse impacts on our assets and supply chain. As an 
example, the transformation of our refineries into energy and chemicals 
parks reduces the level of our operational emissions and medium-
to long-term commercial risks, allowing us to plan for future
adaptation measures. 
Our integrated approach to risk management and the resulting 
changes in our strategy ensure we manage our aggregate climate 
change risk within our overall risk appetite over different time horizons.
Shell’s processes for identifying and assessing risks are part of our 
Shell Control Framework.
Our risk management procedures that help us identify climate-related 
risks and opportunities include:
▪ monitoring external developments, including policy changes and 
new regulations;
▪ evaluating the status of risk indicators, which illustrate how well 
we are managing each component of the risk related to climate 
change and GHG emissions; and
▪ learning from incidents and assurance findings.
We use these procedures to identify risks relating to climate change 
and GHG emissions, which in turn enables us to determine their 
significance, both individually and relative to other risks.
Assessing climate-related risks
Processes within the Shell Control Framework that help us assess each 
identified risk include the evaluation of its impact, likelihood and the 
level of risk we are willing to accept.
When assessing the likelihood of a risk occurring, we consider factors 
such as our ability to prevent the risk happening and whether the risk 
has materialised in the past.
We consider the financial consequences and how it might affect our 
reputation, our ability to comply with regulations, and possible damage 
to health, safety, our assets and the environment. The impact, and 
hence materiality, of a risk is based on how critical it could be to 
our business model.
We operate in multiple countries and therefore societal risks are 
material as they are directly linked to our licence to operate.
The impact and likelihood assessment helps us to prioritise risks and 
determine their relative materiality, based on a comprehensive picture 
of significant risks to a relevant business's objectives.
To support our risk assessments, we seek to establish the level of 
risk that we are willing to accept in pursuit of Shell’s strategy and 
objectives. We consider the amount of resources – such as financial 
resources, people, processes, systems and controls – that we are 
willing and able to allocate to manage each risk in pursuit of our 
objectives and the impact to Shell’s overall risk profile.
The impact and likelihood assessment, combined with risk appetite, 
determines the type of risk responses, such as controls and assurance 
activities, that may be required to manage each risk.
Possible responses include:
▪ accepting the risk without any further action;
▪ mitigating or reducing the risk with appropriate controls, supported 
by assurance activities;
▪ transferring the risk, for example to insurance providers where 
appropriate; and 
▪ altogether stopping or forgoing the activity that gives rise to the risk.
In determining our risk responses, we always seek to comply with
our Code of Conduct and other boundaries, such as our financial 
framework, which set the aggregate level of risk appetite that could
be sustained. The financial framework considers boundaries such
as our net debt levels and our credit rating.
Physical risks
Potential physical impacts to our assets, irrespective of cause, 
are important for us to manage. 
Climate variability is considered in the design and operation of 
our assets and infrastructure to minimise the risk of adverse incidents 
to our employees and contractors, the communities where we 
operate, our equipment and infrastructure. Our new projects consider 
anticipated weather and climatic events in their design and Metocean 
(meteorology and oceanography) engineering experts are available, 
if requested, to assist our assets and project teams in the evaluation 
of physical risks. 
On an ongoing basis, our assets leverage broad risk and threat 
management processes to identify and respond to emerging challenges 
to their ongoing safe, compliant and efficient operation, as required 
by our HSSE & SP Control Framework. We are working to deepen 
our understanding of this risk and to establish metrics in this area to 
monitor our exposure across the Group.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
92 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
92
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Classifications of risks
We identify and assess three distinct categories of risk 
across the Group:
▪ strategic: we consider current and future portfolio issues, 
examining parameters such as country concentration or 
exposure to higher-risk countries. We also consider long-
range developments in order to test key assumptions or 
beliefs in relation to energy markets.
▪ operational: we consider material operational exposures 
across Shell’s entire value chain to provide a more granular 
assessment of key risks that the organisation is facing.
▪ conduct and culture: we consider alignment of our 
policies, practices and behaviours against our purpose 
and core values.
The four sub-components of risk related to climate change and 
GHG emissions – commercial, regulatory, societal (including 
litigation), and physical risks – are assessed across the above 
three categories to ensure we maintain strategic resilience, have 
robust day-to-day operational risk responses and that responses 
align with Shell’s purpose and core values.
Shell's processes for managing climate-related risks
Our climate-related risk management process is carried out at the 
Group, business, function and asset level, which includes projects.
We apply the Shell Control Framework to ensure that we 
effectively manage our climate-related risks at all these levels. 
The framework includes:
▪ mandatory risk standards and manuals;
▪ project-level risk management processes;
▪ management and Board reviews;
▪ internal audits and investigations; and
▪ annual attestation processes.
Mandatory risk standards and manuals
We have mandatory standards and manuals which establish the 
requirements on how to effectively manage material risks including 
the operation of appropriate controls. Our standards and manuals 
also provide guidance on how to monitor, communicate and report 
changes in the risk environment. These documents aim to:
▪ ensure consistent management and assessment of climate risk
across Shell; 
▪ clarify expectations for risk management and reporting, 
including roles and responsibilities of the risk owners;
▪ clarify types of assurance activities that may be applicable; 
▪ strengthen decision-making by ensuring that businesses have better 
awareness and understanding of climate risks (including their 
likelihood and potential impact) and mitigation plans; and 
▪ enable integration of Shell’s reporting.
We periodically review and, if necessary, update our standards and 
manuals in light of developments in risks, including those associated 
with climate change. Our approach continues to evolve as we increase 
our understanding of changing policies and the differing pace of 
energy transition in different regions.
Project-level risk management processes
At a project level, assessing climate-related risks is an important part
of making initial investment decisions. Projects of a certain size or
which carry unusual risks are required to follow Shell’s Opportunity 
Realisation Standard, which sets out the rules for managing and 
delivering opportunities in the organisation. Each project is assisted
by experts from our global subject matter groups during its 
development, implementation and operation.
Projects under development that are expected to have a material
GHG impact must meet our internal carbon performance standards
or industry benchmarks. Our performance standards are used for 
measuring a project’s average lifetime GHG intensity or energy 
efficiency per asset type. Applying these criteria ensures that our 
projects can compete and prosper in the energy transition. An 
exception process is in place to manage specific incidental cases. 
Performance standards are under development for power and 
hydrogen projects.
The performance standards are approved by the Executive Vice 
President accountable for implementation in the relevant businesses, 
and by the Executive Vice President Safety, Environment and Asset 
Management.
Projects with a material GHG footprint that meet the performance 
standards or industry benchmarks will often set more ambitious 
emissions targets for themselves. GHG abatement plans help determine 
the nature of these targets, and we assess the effects of a project's 
emissions alongside economic and technical design factors. 
We assess the future GHG emissions of projects against performance 
standards and by considering the GHG emissions from the use of the 
products that are to be manufactured. These assessments can lead to 
projects being stopped or designs being changed.
We expect the performance standards to evolve as our portfolio 
changes in the energy transition.
Management and Board reviews
Management, the Board and Board committees review the risk 
of climate change and GHG emissions to ensure awareness of 
emerging issues that may impact our strategy and to ensure the 
effectiveness of our responses in managing this risk at a more granular, 
operational level. For example, as part of the annual planning cycle, 
the Executive Committee and the Board assess how climate change 
and GHG emissions may affect the pace of the energy transition, 
business emission reduction plans and the implications for Shell’s 
current portfolio.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
93 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
93
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

In addition, each business and function regularly reviews its risk profile, 
risk responses and assurance activities throughout the year to ensure 
climate-related risks are managed effectively. These insights are used 
to provide management with updates on the operational management 
of climate change and GHG emissions risks. During these updates, 
management considers the significance of the climate change and 
GHG emissions risks relative to other risks on the Group risk profile 
and reviews whether our risk responses are effective in addressing 
the four sub-components of the climate change and GHG 
emissions risk. 
Our management reviews help us to update Shell’s plans and guide 
our day-to-day operational decisions such as maintenance schedules 
and our risk response plans.
Internal audits and investigations processes
Shell’s Internal Audit and Investigations (SIAI) team provides 
independent and objective assurance and advises management and 
the Board on the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk management 
and internal controls. 
For example, SIAI conducted four GHG audits during 2022 to test 
whether controls are adequately designed and operating effectively 
to mitigate the identified risks. The controls tested covered GHG 
emissions measurement, reporting and forecasting and abatement 
projects. Additionally, SIAI conducted two audits focused on 
decarbonisation of industry sectors and nature based solutions. 
Annual attestation processes
On an annual basis, all directors are required to provide an attestation 
of their business’s or function's compliance with our HSSE & SP 
Control Framework and to report this to Shell’s CEO. This includes 
the assessment of the effectiveness of the internal controls in 
managing climate-related risks. 
Project-level risk management in action:
Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore
We are transforming our refining business and making it 
fit for the future. The Pulau Bukom Manufacturing Site in 
Singapore transformed into the Shell Energy and Chemicals 
Park Singapore. We have reduced our crude processing 
capacity by about half and delivered a significant reduction 
in CO
2 emissions. 
We are repurposing Bukom by making significant changes 
in our refinery configuration, establishing a foundation for 
producing low-carbon energy products like biofuels. We 
are also incorporating circularity, such as waste plastics 
for feedstock, as well as providing renewable energy.
Integration of the climate-related risk management 
process into Shell's overall risk management
Our climate-related risk management process follows the approach 
set out by the Shell Control Framework, ensuring that it is integrated 
into the overall risk management processes of the Group. 
Climate-related risks are considered from a strategic and operational 
perspective to ensure we maintain a comprehensive view of the 
different types of climate risks we face and the different time 
horizons in which they may affect us.
The monitoring and review of risks is a key risk management process 
in Shell. The Executive Committee, the Board and Board committees 
review climate-related risks and their impact on the Group. This allows 
management to take a holistic view and to optimise risk mitigation 
responses, to ensure that climate-related risk responses are properly 
integrated into the relevant activities.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
94 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
94
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Climate-related metrics and targets
Metrics used by Shell to assess climate-related risks
and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
management process
This section describes our energy product and carbon emissions 
performance and metrics used to monitor our progress in respect 
of significant climate-related transition risks and opportunities, 
including targets reflected in remuneration of senior management 
and employees.
Key metrics we use to track progress against our energy transition 
strategy are the NCI of our portfolio and our absolute emissions. 
Additional metrics associated with the resilience of Shell's strategy to 
transition risks and opportunities are included in "Resilience of Shell's 
strategy to different climate-related scenarios" from page 88. This 
includes information on capital allocation between our business 
segments and the sensitivity of our assets to carbon, discount rate
and commodity price assumptions.
Another potentially significant climate-related risk relates to 
Shell’s physical risk exposure at an asset level. We are working 
to establish metrics in this area to monitor our exposure to this 
risk across the Group.
Our overall climate target is to become a net-zero emissions business 
by 2050. It includes net-zero emissions from our operations (Scope 1 
and 2 emissions), as well as net-zero emissions from the end-use of all 
the energy products we sell (Scope 3 emissions). We have set short-, 
medium- and long-term targets to track our performance against our 
overall climate target over time. 
We believe our total absolute emissions peaked in 2018 at 
1.73 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (GtCO
2e). 
In October 2021, in support of our 2050 net-zero emissions target,
we set a target to reduce Scope 1 and 2 absolute emissions from assets 
and activities under our operational control (including divestments) by 
50% by 2030 compared with 2016 levels on a net basis. We monitor 
our progress against these targets using the key metrics described.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
95 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Net Carbon 
Intensity [A],[E]□
Absolute
emissions
Scope 1 & 2 [B]
Scope 3 [D]
Routine ﬂaring
Methane
emissions [C]
[A] Our total absolute emissions peaked in 2018 at around 1.73 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (GtCO/uni2082 e) per annum.
[B] Operational control boundary.
[C] Overall methane emissions intensity for facilities with marketing gas.
[D] Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) based on the energy product sales included in Net Carbon Intensity (NCI) using equity boundary.
[E] Our interim targets for 2035 and 2050 are based on mitigation activities undertaken by both Shell and our customers. 
Climate-related targets summary
2016
intensity
3.8%
reduction 20%9-13% 45%6-8% by 2023
9-12% by 2024
2016
absolute 50%30%
reduction
2016
absolute
absolute
emissions eliminated Net zero
intensity below
0.2%
2022 actual
performance 2025 2035 2050
Reference year
and target type 2023 – 2024
0.1 million
tonnes
hydrocarbons
ﬂared
0.05%
1,174 million
tonnes CO/uni2082e 
2030
95
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Net carbon intensity (NCI)
Shell’s NCI is the average intensity, weighted by sales volumes, 
of the energy products sold by Shell. It is tracked, measured and 
reported using the Net Carbon Footprint (NCF) methodology. 
We have received third-party limited assurance on our net carbon 
intensity for the period 2016 to 2022.
[A] To be read in conjunction with Basis of preparation on page 102.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
96 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Emissions from energy products included within the Net Carbon Footprint methodology
Production Use of our 
energy productsProcessing Distribution and sales
Own oil and 
gas production
Sales
Oil 
products
Natural 
gas
Liqueﬁed 
natural
gas (LNG)
GTL
Reﬁning
Renewable
energy
Sales
Power
Biofuels
Sales
Gas
production
Renewable
raw materials
Processing
Power 
plant
Scope includes Shell’s CO/uni2082 sinks such as carbon capture and storage (CCS) and nature-based solutions (NBS)
SalesProcessing, liquefaction,
gas-to-liquids (GTL)
Third-party
products
Third-party
products
Third-party
biofuels
Third-party
crude oil
Third-party
gas
Third-party
power
Emissions from bringing
own products to marketa
a
Power distributiond
d
Emissions from bringing
third-party products to market
b
b
Emissions from use
of sold productsc
c
Scope of Net Carbon Intensity [A]
96
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Performance – NCI
In 2022, Shell’s NCI was 76 grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per 
megajoule of energy (gCO2e/MJ), a 1.3% decrease from the previous 
year and a 3.8% reduction compared with 2016, the reference year. 
The decrease in Shell’s NCI in 2022 was primarily due to an increased 
proportion of renewable power and corresponding reduction in the 
carbon intensity of our power sales. Shell’s 2022 NCI includes 
4.1 million tonnes of carbon credits, compared to the 5.1 million 
tonnes which were included in Shell’s 2021 NCI.
 
NCI reference year: 2016
(equity boundary) 2022 2021 2020 2016
NCI [E] gCO2e/MJ 76 77 75 79
Estimated total 
energy delivered 
by Shell [A] trillion (10^12) MJ 16.29 17.89 18.40 20.93
Estimated total 
GHG emissions 
included in NCI 
(net) [B] million tonnes CO
2e 1,240 1,375 1,384 1,645
Carbon credits million tonnes CO 2e 4.1 5.1 3.9 0.0
Estimated total 
GHG emissions 
(gross) [C][D] million tonnes CO
2e 1,244 1,381 1,388 1,645
[A] The NCI calculation uses Shell’s energy product sales volumes data, as disclosed in the 
Annual Report and Sustainability Report. This excludes certain contracts held for trading 
purposes and reported net rather than gross. Business-specific methodologies to net 
volumes have been applied in oil products and pipeline gas and power. Paper trades that 
do not result in physical product delivery are excluded. Retail sales volumes from markets 
where Shell operates under trademark licensing agreements are also excluded from the 
scope of Shell´s net carbon intensity metric.
[B] These numbers include well-to-wheel emissions associated with energy products sold by 
Shell, on an equity boundary basis; they also include the well-to-tank emissions associated 
with the manufacturing of energy products by others that are sold by Shell. Emissions 
associated with the manufacturing and use of non-energy products are excluded. 
[C] All figures disclosed are rounded.
[D] While the NCI is an intensity measure and not an inventory of absolute emissions, a 
notional estimate of the amount of GHG emissions covered by the scope of the NCI 
calculation can be derived from the final NCI value for any year. Similarly, a fossil-
equivalent estimate of the total amount of energy sold included in the calculation 
can also be determined.
[E] Acquisitions and divestments are included in the actual performance tracking with
the target and baseline year unchanged. Note that acquisitions and divestments
could have a material impact on meeting the targets.
As we implement our Powering Progress strategy, we are increasing 
the share of low-carbon products in our energy product sales, which 
is the biggest driver for reducing our NCI.
Our ability to change the emissions intensity of each energy product 
varies depending on the product type: 
▪ Hydrocarbon fuels - emissions from end-use by customers are by 
far the biggest contributors to the carbon intensity of the product. 
As a result, the emissions intensity of hydrocarbon fuels is expected 
to stay relatively unchanged over time. This is why we are focused 
on helping our customers decarbonise.
▪ Power - the emissions intensity of power can be highly variable 
depending on how it has been generated. The proportion of our 
renewable power sales and the generation mix in countries where 
we sell power to the market both affect Shell’s overall power mix 
and its resulting emissions intensity.
▪ Biofuels - can vary significantly in intensity depending on the 
feedstock and production process used. 
Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions
and related risks
In assessing progress against our target to be a net-zero emissions 
energy business by 2050, we report our performance against our 
operational Scope 1 and 2, and Scope 3 emissions. Scope 1, 2 and 3 
emissions are among the metrics we use to mitigate climate risks and 
seize opportunities in the energy transition.
Shell’s absolute emissions in 2022
In 2022, our total combined Scope 1 and 2 absolute GHG emissions 
(from assets and activities under our operational control) were 58 
million tonnes on a CO
2 equivalent basis, a 15% reduction compared 
with 2021, and a 30% reduction compared with 2016, the base year. 
Our Scope 3 emissions from energy products included in our net 
carbon intensity were 1,174 million tonnes CO
2e.
 
Absolute emissions [D], [F]
million tonnes of CO2e Targets [E]
Scope 2016 2020 2021 2022
Target 
2030
Target 
2050
Scope 1 [A] 72 63 60 51
50% 
reduction 
compared 
with 2016 
levels on a 
net basis
0
Scope 2 [B] 11 8 8 7 0
Scope 3 [C] 1,545 1,305 1,299 1,174 No target 0
[A] Total direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions from assets and activities under our operational 
control. It includes emissions from production of energy and non-energy products.
[B] Total indirect GHG emissions from imported energy (Scope 2) from assets and activities 
under our operational control using the market-based method. It includes imported energy 
used for production of energy and non-energy products.
[C] Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) based on the energy product sales included in NCI 
using equity boundary. The NCI calculation uses Shell’s energy product sales volumes 
data, as disclosed in the Annual Report and Sustainability Report. This excludes certain 
contracts held for trading purposes and reported net rather than gross. Business-specific 
methodologies to net volumes have been applied in oil products and pipeline gas and 
power. Paper trades that do not result in physical product delivery are excluded. Retail 
sales volumes from markets where Shell operates under trademark licensing agreements 
are also excluded from the scope of Shell´s net carbon intensity metric.
[D] Emissions are reported gross without the inclusion of carbon credits.
[E] Our 2030 and 2050 targets are on a net basis (i.e. including carbon credits). Acquisitions 
and divestments have been included in the actual performance tracking with the target 
unchanged. Note that acquisitions and divestments could have a material impact on 
meeting the targets.
[F] Oil and gas industry guidelines from IPIECA indicate that several sources of uncertainty 
can contribute to the overall uncertainty of a corporate emissions inventory. We have 
estimated the overall uncertainty for our direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) to be around 3% 
and for our energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) to be around 7% for the market-
based method and 6% for the location-based method for 2022. IPIECA also notes that due 
to the diversity of Scope 3 emissions, sources and the fact that these emissions occur 
outside the company’s boundaries, the emissions estimates may be less accurate or may 
have high uncertainty.
Our Scope 3 emissions reported above can be categorised as follows, 
using the definitions from the GHG Protocol's Corporate Value Chain 
(Scope 3) Standard:
 
GHG emissions, million tonnes CO2e 2022 2021
Scope 3, category 1: purchased goods and services 144 147
Scope 3, category 3: fuel and energy-related activities 115 136
Scope 3, category 9: downstream transport and 
distribution 5 6
Scope 3, category 11: use of sold products 910 1,010
1,174 1,299
Scope 3 emissions from categories 1, 3 and 11 make up the majority of 
Shell’s Scope 3 emissions. Shell reports Scope 3 emissions across all 15 
categories annually. 
For further details see: www.shell.com/ghg
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
97 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
97
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The Scope 3 emissions from the energy products we sell account 
for the majority of the total emissions we report. When we calculate 
our emissions, we include emissions not only from the products that 
we produce ourselves but also from the oil and gas that others 
produce and we sell as products to our customers. We sell more 
energy products than the energy we produce ourselves, therefore, 
to account for Shell’s full effect, we include energy products sold 
in the measurement of our carbon emissions as shown in the chart 
on page 96. 
 
Scope 1 & 2 – performance [A]
million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO₂e)
[A] Total direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions from assets and 
activities under operational control boundary. It includes emissions from production of 
energy and non-energy products. For Scope 2, we used the market-based method.
[B] Other covers Renewables and Energy Solutions, Marketing, P&T and Real Estate.
 
Share of energy delivered per energy product type
[A]-[F]
[A] Percentage of delivered energy may not add up to 100% because of rounding.
[B] Total volume of energy products sold by Shell, aggregated on an energy basis, with 
electricity represented as fossil equivalents. This value is derived from energy product
sales figures disclosed by Shell in the Annual Report and the Sustainability Report.
[C] Lower heating values are used for the energy content of the different products and a fossil-
equivalence approach is used to account for electrical energy, so that it is assessed on the 
same basis as our other energy products. 
[D] The NCI calculation uses Shell’s energy product sales volumes data, as disclosed in the 
Annual Report and Sustainability Report. This excludes certain contracts held for trading 
purposes and reported net rather than gross. Business-specific methodologies to net 
volumes have been applied in oil products and pipeline gas and power. Paper trades that 
do not result in physical product delivery are excluded. Retail sales volumes from markets 
where Shell operates under trademark licensing agreements are also excluded from the 
scope of Shell’s carbon intensity metric.
[E] Emissions included in the carbon intensity of power have been calculated using the market-
based method.
[F] The carbon intensity of biofuels provided in the graph "Share of energy delivered per 
energy product type" reflects the global average for biofuels sold by Shell for 2022.
We undertake external verification of our GHG emissions annually. Our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from assets and activities under our 
operational control and emissions associated with the use of our energy products (Scope 3) included in our NCI have been verified to a level
of limited assurance by LRQA Group Limited.
Drivers of absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions change
 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions changes from 2016 to 2021 and from 2021 to 2022
million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO₂e)
[A] Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, rounded to the closest million tonnes. Scope 2 emissions were calculated using the market-based method. 
[B] In addition to reductions from GHG abatement and energy efficiency projects, this category also includes reductions from permanent shutdown of Convent and Tabangao refineries and the 
impact of transformational activities at our Shell Energy and Chemicals Park in Singapore. 
[C] Excludes 5.80 million tonnes of CO₂ captured and sequestered by the Shell-operated Quest CCS facility in Canada in 2016-2021. Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from operating Quest are 
included in our total emissions.
[D] Excludes 0.97 million tonnes of CO₂ captured and sequestered by the Shell-operated Quest CCS facility in Canada in 2022. Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from operating Quest are 
included in our total emissions.
[E] Of the 2,010 thousand tonnes of reduction activities and purchased renewable electricity in 2022, around 80 thousand tonnes related to purchased renewable electricity.
[F] Change in output relates to changes in production levels, including those resulting from shutdowns and turnarounds as well as production from new facilities.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
98 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Scope 1 & 2 – performance [A]
20 2220 2120 202016
1
9
16
32
1
83
20
16
46a
b
c
d
[A] Total direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions from assets and
 activities under operational control boundary. It includes emissions from production of
 energy and non-energy products. For Scope 2, we used the market-based method.
[B] Other covers Renewables and Energy Solutions, Marketing, P&T and Real Estate.
a
b
c
d
Chemicals & Products
million tones carbon dioxide equivalent (CO /uni2082,e)
Integrated Gas
Upstream Other [B]
1
71
13
15
42
1
68
58
12
17
38
20 22202120202016
1%
21%
19%
12%
47%
1%
25%
18%
12%
45%
1%
22%
20%
12%
44%
1%
24%
14%
7%
54%a
b
c
d
e
a
b
c
d
e
Oil products and gas-to-liquids (GTL) (carbon intensity in 2022 was 91 gCO /uni2082e/M J) 
Liqueﬁed natural gas (LNG)  (carbon intensity in 2022 was 70 gCO /uni2082e/M J) 
Gas  (carbon intensity in 2022 was 65 gCO /uni2082e/M J) 
Power  (carbon intensity in 2022 was 58 gCO /uni2082e/M J) 
Biofuels  (carbon intensity in 2022 was 39 gCO /uni2082e/M J) 
70
60
65
55
2016 2021 2022
75
80
85
90
  Emissions [A] a
 Acquisitionsb
 
 Divestments c
 
 
Reduction activities and purchased renewable electricity [B] [C] [D] [E]  d
 Change in output [F]e
 Otherf
83
5.0
(9.2)
6.6(15.4)
(2.3)
68 0.0
(2.0)
(0.9)(7.5) 0.4 58
a
b
d e
c
f
a
b
d e
c
f a
98
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Our direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) (consolidated using the 
operational control boundary) decreased from 60 million tonnes 
of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) in 2021 to 51 million tonnes 
CO2e in 2022, driven by several factors including: 
▪ divestments in 2021 and 2022 (e.g. the Deer Park and Puget Sound 
refineries in the USA) and the handover of operations in OML 11 in 
Nigeria in 2022;
▪ shutdowns or conversion of existing assets, including the shutdown 
of some units at the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore;
▪ GHG abatement projects (see examples in the list of energy 
efficiency projects on page 105) and purchase of renewable 
electricity. 
These decreases were partly offset by the commissioning of Shell 
Polymers Monaca.
Total routine hydrocarbons flaring
 reduced from 0.2 to 0.1 million 
tonnes of hydrocarbon flared from 2021 to 2022.
Around 50% of flaring in our Upstream and Integrated Gas facilities in 
2022 occurred in assets operated by the Shell Petroleum Development 
Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) and Shell Nigeria Exploration and 
Production Company (SNEPCo). We will continue to work in close 
collaboration with joint-venture partners and the Federal Government 
of Nigeria to make progress towards the objective of ending the 
continuous flaring of associated gas.
Our target to keep methane emissions intensity below 
0.2% was met 
in 2022 with Shell’s overall methane emissions intensity at 0.05% for 
facilities with marketing gas and 0.01% for facilities without marketing 
gas. We believe our methane emissions are calculated using the best 
methods currently available. This target covers all Shell-operated oil 
and gas assets in our Upstream and Integrated Gas businesses. 
Methane emissions include those from unintentional leaks, venting 
and incomplete combustion, for example in flares and turbines.
Our indirect GHG emissions associated with imported energy (Scope 
2) (consolidated using the operational control boundary) decreased 
from 8 
million tonnes CO2e in 2021 to 7 million tonnes CO2e in 2022 
(using the market-based method), in part, due to divestments.
Drivers of absolute Scope 3 emissions change in 2022
Emissions associated with the use of energy products sold by Shell 
account for the majority of our reported carbon emissions. The reported 
Scope 3 emissions within the NCI boundary have reduced from 2021. 
The decrease is largely due to a reduction in oil product and gas sales, 
and a decrease in the intensity of power sold. 
There was a decrease in 2020 from 2019 related to volumes 
associated with additional contracts being classified as held for trading 
purposes with effect from January 2020. We estimate that netting of oil 
products sales volumes resulted in a reduction in GHG emissions of 
102 million tonnes CO
2e. 
Our strategy is based on working with our customers to address the 
emissions from the use of our products and to help them find ways 
to reduce their emissions to net zero by 2050.
Targets used by Shell to manage climate-related risks 
and opportunities and performance against targets
Shell’s material climate-related risks and opportunities are set out in
the "Climate-related risks and opportunities identified by Shell over 
the short, medium and long term" section. Our response to the energy 
transition risk focuses on decarbonising our value chain. Our climate 
targets are focused on reducing our NCI and our absolute emissions.
Setting targets for NCI 
There is no established standard for aligning an energy supplier’s 
decarbonisation targets with the temperature limit goal of the Paris 
Agreement. In the absence of a broadly accepted standard, we have 
developed our own approach for demonstrating Paris alignment by 
setting carbon intensity targets within a pathway derived from the IPCC 
SR 1.5 scenarios. This pathway is aligned with the more ambitious 
temperature goal of the Paris Agreement to limit global average 
temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels by 2100. 
When constructing the pathway, we started by filtering out certain 
scenarios to ensure that Shell’s targets are aligned with earlier action, 
and low-overshoot scenarios. Overshoot refers to the extent to which 
a scenario exceeds an emissions budget and subsequently relies on 
sinks to compensate for the excess emissions. Next, we calculated the 
carbon intensity (gCO
2e/MJ of energy) for each of the remaining 
scenarios by dividing net emissions by total final energy consumption, 
with electricity represented as a fossil fuel equivalent.
To set a starting point, we then indexed the resulting carbon intensities 
to a common value of 100 in 2016 to remove the impact of differences 
between Shell’s historical net carbon intensity and the intensities 
calculated from the IPCC scenarios. Finally, the pathway was 
constructed using the range of carbon intensity reductions over time. 
Outlying values at the top and bottom of the range were removed, 
which had the effect of narrowing the final pathway.
By using the 1.5°C pathway produced by this approach to set our 
targets, we aligned them with the necessary reduction in carbon 
intensity shown in the 1.5°C scenarios. This is illustrated in the table, 
which shows that our targets are positioned within the range of the 
1.5°C pathway. The upper and lower limits represent the upper and 
lower boundaries of the 1.5°C pathway derived using the approach 
described above.
 
2023 2024 2025 2030 2035 2050
IPCC derived upper limit -4% -5% -7% -15% -34% -68%
IPCC derived lower limit -10% -13% -17% -36% -64% -104%
Shell target range 6-8% 9-12% 9-13% 20% 45% 100%
Until 2035, our calculation of the total net emissions of each scenario 
includes only the expected mitigation actions by Shell, such as CCS 
and offsetting using natural sinks including any use of offsets included 
in the carbon-neutral energy products we offer our customers. After 
that date, we included mitigation actions taken separately by our 
customers. This is because we expect that customers will need to take 
action to mitigate their emissions from the use of our products, if society 
is to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement.
To account for reductions in emissions across full energy value chains, 
it is necessary to build new protocols to include mitigation actions by 
both energy suppliers and users. Energy suppliers report the Scope 3 
emissions from the use of their products, which are equivalent to the 
Scope 1 emissions reported by the users of those products. However, 
when users of energy products mitigate their Scope 1 emissions by the 
use of CCS or offsets there is no protocol for reflecting a corresponding 
reduction in the Scope 3 emissions reported by the energy supplier. 
We will continue to engage stakeholders on these carbon protocols 
and will seek to align with new frameworks as they evolve.
Shell has set a target to reduce the NCI of the energy products it 
sells by 20% by 2030. We believe this target is aligned with a 1.5°C 
pathway derived from the IPCC SR 1.5 scenarios. We also believe that 
the pace of change will vary around the world by region and by sector, 
taking into consideration the time needed for energy users to invest in 
large-scale equipment and the energy infrastructure changes needed 
for Shell to deliver more low- and zero-carbon energy.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
99 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
99
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The chart below shows our progress since 2016 in reducing our Scope 1 and 2 emissions and gives an indication of how we expect to achieve our 
target in 2030. The actions we will take to achieve our target will depend on the evolution of our asset portfolio and the continued development 
of technologies which reduce carbon emissions. Following divestment activity in 2022, we expect that on a net portfolio basis, new investments 
across our portfolio will increase our Scope 1 and 2 emissions between 2023 and 2030 and that they will exceed reductions associated with 
planned divestments and natural decline. Our investments in producing low-carbon energy such as biofuels will increase our Scope 1 and 2 
emissions, while reducing the net carbon intensity of the products we sell. Subsequent reductions in our emissions are reflected in the mechanisms 
outlined below and reflect an expected path to meeting our target in 2030. 
 
Working to reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions
Scope 1 and 2 emissions in million tonnes per annum [A],[B]
[A] The 2016 Base Year was not recalculated in 2022. The 2016 Base Year may be recalculated in future years if an acquisition or a divestment has an impact of more than 10% on the total 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions. 
[B] Operational control boundary.
[C] Including nature-based solutions.
The biggest driver for reducing our NCI is increasing the sales of and demand for low-carbon energy. The chart below illustrates how changes in 
the volume of products and services we sell could result in NCI reductions to 2030. The change in our sales of these products and services will also 
reflect the development and adoption of new technologies and infrastructure, and the adoption of public policies designed to encourage the 
energy transition.
 
Working to reduce our net carbon intensity
Net carbon intensity in gCO2e/MJ [A]
[A] Grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per megajoule.
[B] Hydrocarbon sales reflect the effect of lower sales of oil products, and higher sales of natural gas. Emissions associated with gas are lower than those of oil products. 
[C] Electricity sales show the expected growth of our integrated power business and increasing sales of renewable electricity. 
[D] Sales of low-carbon fuels reflect higher sales of biofuels and hydrogen, which are low- and zero-carbon products. 
[E] Carbon capture and storage (CCS) reduces carbon emissions by capturing them at source. 
[F] Carbon credits such as nature-based solutions can be used to offset remaining carbon emissions, particularly in hard-to-abate sectors such as aviation and industries including cement 
and steel.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
100 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
2030Carbon
credits [C]
Carbon
capture
and storage
Use of
renewable
power
Energy and 
chemicals 
park 
transformation
Efﬁciency
improvements
Portfolio
changes
20222021202020192016
-50%
41
6871
8083
11
72
a
b
10
70
8
63
8
60
7
51
58
a bScope 1 Scope 2 c Target
-30% 
c
-20%
-3.8%
63
7779
■ Grow power
 sales
■ Grow biofuels,
   develop
 hydrogen
■ Develop CCS ■ High quality
  carbon credits
76
2030Carbon
credits
[F]
Carbon
capture
and storage
[E]
Low-carbon
fuels sales
[D]
Electricity
sales
[C]
Hydrocarbon
sales
[B]
202220212016
a bActual Target
a
b
100
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Linking Shell’s emissions targets to remuneration policies
We have established remuneration policies which are designed 
to support us in achieving our net-zero emissions targets:
▪ Our Performance Share Plan (PSP) and Long-term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) are linked to net carbon intensity targets; and
▪ Our PSP, LTIP and annual bonus scorecard are linked to performance 
indicators that guide an assessment of our success in delivering 
our energy transition strategy. 
 
See also "Directors' Remuneration Report" on pages 178-182.
The LTIP and PSP are designed to ensure that remuneration is clearly 
aligned with Shell’s operating plan and longer-term strategic ambitions. 
The same measures apply to Executive Directors and Senior 
Management and to a significantly broader employee base.
The LTIP (measured over a three-year performance period) is used to 
make long-term share incentive awards to Executive Directors, 
Executive Committee members and Senior Executives. 
PSPs are long-term incentives, also measured over a 3 year 
performance period, designed to retain key employees and ensure
they have a greater investment in Shell’s future. 
Energy transition performance condition and the vesting 
of the 2020 LTIP and PSP awards
The following performance outcomes for the energy transition 
performance condition were considered in the assessment of the
2020 LTIP and PSP vest, covering the performance cycle 2020-2022:
 
Outcome
Reduce net carbon intensity Performance indicator met
Grow a material power business Substantively met
Grow low-carbon products Performance indicator met
Develop emissions sinks Performance indicator met
In addition to the above, a number of broader indicators of Shell's 
progress in the energy transition were considered. Overall, it was 
determined that the energy transition measure (accounting for 10%
of the LTIP award and 5% of the PSP award) should vest at 180%.
 
See also "Annual Report on Remuneration" on pages 188-192.
Energy transition performance condition in the 2022 LTIP 
and PSP awards
For LTIP and PSP awards granted in 2022, the energy transition 
performance condition had a weighting of 10% for the PSP and 20% 
for the LTIP. The energy transition performance condition for these 
awards includes a mix of leading and lagging indicators on the 
following strategic measures:
▪ Build a valuable power business: our ambition is to expand our 
power business through selective investments in generation and
by reselling power generated by others;
▪ Grow new lower-carbon energy product offerings: continue to invest 
in low- and zero-carbon products, such as renewable electricity, 
hydrogen, biofuels and chemicals;
▪ Develop emission sinks: invest in carbon capture and storage 
opportunities, to reduce emissions where there are no currently 
scalable low-carbon alternatives, and in the development of high-
quality nature-based projects, to compensate for emissions; and
▪ Reduce the NCI of the energy products sold by Shell.
The vesting outcome of the LTIP awards is at the discretion of the 
REMCO, and will be guided by performance indicators set at the 
outset of the scheme alongside a more holistic assessment of progress.
Proposed energy transition performance condition for 2023 
LTIP awards
For 2023 LTIP awards, assessment of performance against energy 
transition measures will be based on NCI reduction, plus supporting 
strategic themes including: 
▪ Reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions; 
▪ Building a renewable power business;
▪ Growing new lower-carbon energy offerings; and
▪ Developing emission sinks and offsets.
The REMCO assesses progress against the NCI target and Shell’s 
longer-term goals for each strategic theme when making the vesting 
decision for each reward cycle. 
 
See "Annual Report on Remuneration" on page 201 for more information on the 
proposed performance framework.
Energy transition targets in the annual bonus scorecard 
Delivering on our net-zero emissions target is a part of the annual 
scorecard, which helps determine annual performance bonus outcomes 
for senior management and almost all of Shell’s employees. 
The energy transition progress measures in our annual scorecard 
have, until 2022, focused on managing and reducing our operational 
emissions. However, succeeding in the energy transition requires us to 
change what we sell. In 2022, we widened the scope of the energy 
transition progress measures in the annual bonus scorecard: 
▪ Selling lower carbon products – we help customers to reduce their 
emissions by supplying low-carbon products. We measure our 
success by the earnings share of our Marketing activities from low-
carbon energy products as well as non-energy products and 
convenience retail. 
▪ Reducing operational emissions – our target is to achieve a 50% 
reduction by 2030; and this measure is based on reducing our 
Scope 1 and 2 operational emissions. 
▪ Partnering to decarbonise – we seek to collaborate with our 
customers to help them reduce their emissions. In 2022, we 
measured success in this area in terms of our progress in rolling
out our electric vehicle charging network.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
101 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
101
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 2022 Scorecard: Shell's journey in the energy transition
 
2022 
Target
2022 
Performance 2022 Status
Selling lower-carbon products
% of Marketing Adjusted Earnings from 
lower-carbon products 60 60 on target
Reducing operational emissions
thousand tonnes of CO
2 absolute 
emissions reduction 1,700 2,010 outstanding
EV charge points
Number 130,000 138,610
above the 
target
In 2022, the score for operational emission reductions was above the 
top end of the range. It reflects the cumulative effects of actions taken 
across the portfolio, including GHG abatement projects, permanent 
shutdowns and conversions of some facilities such as the
 shutdown of 
some units at the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore, flaring 
reduction and energy efficiency projects (page 105). The above 
reductions do not include CO
2 reduced by CCS projects.
We have set annual targets measuring our roll-out of electric vehicle 
charge points, in line with Shell’s target of having more than 500,000 
by 2025. We outperformed the 2022 target, with a significant 
increase in the second half of the year.
The full year score for providing lower-carbon products was on target. 
We will continue to deliver decarbonisation solutions sector by sector 
enabled by innovation and collaboration. 
 
See also "Annual Report on Remuneration" on page 187.
Metrics and targets in respect of climate-related 
environmental risks
We have set targets to reduce our consumption of fresh water in water-
stressed areas by 15% by 2025, compared with 2018 levels. We also 
monitor the level of waste disposed of from our operations, and the 
amount of plastic waste generated.
 
See "Respecting Nature" on pages 108-109 and "How we create value" on page 
11 for more information.
Basis of preparation – net carbon intensity
Shell’s NCI provides an annual measure of the life-cycle emissions 
intensity of the portfolio of energy products sold. The intended use 
of the NCI metric is to track progress in reducing the overall carbon 
intensity of the energy products sold by Shell. The NCI is calculated 
on a life-cycle basis and as such includes GHG emissions – on an 
equity basis – from several sources, including: 
▪ direct GHG emissions from Shell operations;
▪ indirect GHG emissions from generation of energy consumed 
by Shell; and
▪ indirect GHG emissions from the use of the products we sell.
Emissions from other parts of the product life cycle are also included, 
such as those from the extraction, transport and processing of crude 
oil, gas or other feedstocks and the distribution of products to our 
customers. Also included are emissions from parts of this life cycle not 
owned by Shell, such as the extraction of oil and gas processed by 
Shell but not produced by Shell; or from the production of oil products 
and electricity marketed by Shell that have not been processed or 
generated at a Shell facility.
We also take into account emissions mitigated through various 
measures, such as by creating carbon sinks by working with nature – 
including through protecting forests and wetlands – and by using 
CCS technology.
 
Refer to scope of NCI on page 96 for details of the supply chains and 
steps in the product life cycles that are included in the Net Carbon 
Footprint methodology.
The following GHG emissions are not included in the NCI:
▪ emissions from production, processing, use and end-of-life treatment 
of non-energy products, such as chemicals and lubricants;
▪ emissions from third-party processing of sold intermediate products, 
such as the manufacture of plastics from feedstocks sold by Shell;
▪ emissions associated with the construction and decommissioning of 
production and manufacturing facilities;
▪ emissions associated with the production of fuels purchased to 
generate energy on site at a Shell facility;
▪ other indirect emissions from waste generated in operations, business 
travel, employee commuting, transmission and distribution losses 
associated with imported electricity, franchises and investments; and
▪ emissions from capital goods, defined by the GHG Protocol as 
including fixed assets or property, plant and equipment (PP&E), and 
other goods and services not related to purchased energy feedstocks 
sourced from third parties or energy products manufactured by third 
parties and sold by Shell.
The NCI calculation uses Shell’s energy product sales volume data, 
as disclosed in the Annual Report and Sustainability Report. This 
excludes certain sales volumes such as:
▪ certain contracts held for trading purposes reported net rather than 
gross. Business-specific methodologies to net volumes have been 
applied in oil products and pipeline gas and power. Paper trades 
that do not result in physical product delivery are excluded; and 
▪ retail sales volumes from markets where Shell operates under 
trademark licensing agreements.
Important notes on the NCF methodology
1. The NCF is not a mathematical derivation of total emissions divided 
by total energy, nor is it an inventory of absolute emissions.
2. It is a weighted average of the life-cycle CO
2 intensities of different 
energy products, normalising them to the same point relative to their 
final end-use. The use of a consistent functional unit, grams of carbon 
dioxide equivalent per megajoule (gCO
2e/MJ), allows like-for-like 
comparisons and the aggregation of individual life-cycle intensities 
for a range of energy products including renewables.
 
For further information see our detailed NCF methodology documentation 
(www.shell.com/ghg).
Basis of preparation – absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 
emissions
We follow the GHG Protocol’s Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard, which defines three scopes of GHG emissions:
▪ Scope 1: direct GHG emissions from sources under Shell's 
operational control.
▪ Scope 2: indirect GHG emissions from generation of purchased 
energy consumed by Shell assets under operational control.
▪ Scope 3: other indirect GHG emissions, including emissions 
associated with the use of energy products sold by Shell.
GHG emissions comprise carbon dioxide (CO
2), methane (CH4), 
nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, sulphur 
hexafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride, with carbon dioxide and 
methane being the most significant contributors. Our GHG inventory 
was prepared in line with the requirements outlined in the ISO 
14064-1:2018 Specification with Guidance at the Organisational Level 
for Quantification and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and 
Removals and the GHG Protocol’s Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
102 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
102
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

In line with external standards, Shell aggregates its GHG emissions 
into tonnes of CO2 equivalent by applying global warming potential 
(GWP) factors to each greenhouse gas. These factors are taken from 
the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) over a 100-year time horizon, 
in line with the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company 
Reporting.
GHG emissions are aggregated using a bottom-up approach: emission 
source -> asset -> operating unit -> business -> Group. GHG emissions 
in this Report include emissions from Upstream, Integrated Gas, 
Renewables and Energy Solutions, Downstream (Chemicals and 
Products and Marketing), and Projects & Technology, plus Shell's 
functions. All operated assets are included in the GHG inventory
in the reporting period.
Basis of preparation – Scope 1 emissions
Sources included in Scope 1 emissions comprised: 
▪ combustion of carbon-containing fuels in stationary equipment
(e.g. boilers, gas turbines) for energy generation; 
▪ combustion of carbon-containing fuels in mobile equipment
(e.g. trucks, vessels, mobile rigs);
▪ flares;
▪ venting and emissions from industrial processes (e.g. hydrogen 
plants, catalytic cracking units); and 
▪ fugitive emissions, including piping and equipment leaks and
non-routine events. 
Our Scope 1 emissions follow the GHG protocol guidance. As a result,
the following are not included in our reported Scope 1 emissions:
▪ CO
2 emissions from biogenic sources (for example, biofuels, 
biomass). Instead, they were captured separately. Methane and 
nitrous oxide emissions from biogenic sources were included in 
our Scope 1 emissions. 
▪ Captured CO
2 that was subsequently sold or otherwise transferred 
to third parties.
▪ CO2 captured and sequestered using CCS technologies. However, 
the emissions from operating CCS were included in our Scope 1 
and 2 emissions. 
▪ Carbon credits.
All significant sources were included in the Scope 1 inventory. 
Basis of preparation – Scope 2 emissions
Sources included in Scope 2 emissions comprised indirect emissions 
from purchased and consumed electricity, steam and heat. We did not 
identify any assets with imported cooling or compressed air used for 
energy purposes. 
Scope 2 emissions were calculated using the market- and location-
based methods separately as defined by the GHG Protocol Scope 2 
Guidance. 
All significant sources were included in our Scope 2 inventory. 
Basis of preparation - Scope 3 emissions
This Report provides Scope 3 emissions included in our NCI. They 
were consolidated using the equity boundary approach. Under this 
approach, we reported the Shell share of emissions from energy 
products sold by Shell to end-users, including those sourced from 
third parties. Scope 3 categories included in the total number in 
this Report include the following:
Scope 3, Category 1: purchased goods and services
This category includes well-to-tank emissions from purchased third-party 
unfinished and finished energy products excluding electricity (which 
was reported separately under Category 3: Fuel and energy-related 
activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2)).
Emissions in this category were estimated using well-to-tank emission 
factors for crude oil, natural gas, refined oil products (such as gasoline, 
and diesel), LNG and biofuels. Because the emission factors include 
transport, we did not estimate emissions from transport of purchased 
third-party products separately. 
Emissions from purchased non-energy products were not included in 
this Report. 
Scope 3, Category 3: fuel and energy-related activities 
(not included in Scope 1 and 2)
This category includes well-to-wire emissions from purchased third-party 
electricity sold by Shell, calculated using the market-based method. 
Emissions were not adjusted for any potential double-counting of sold 
natural gas that may have been used for generating this electricity.
This category does not include:
▪ indirect emissions from generation of imported energy (steam, 
heat or electricity consumed by our assets). These emissions 
were reported separately as Scope 2 emissions; and
▪ well-to-tank emissions from purchased electricity, steam and heat 
consumed by our assets (i.e. Scope 3 emissions from extraction, 
refining and transport of primary fuels before their use in the 
generation of electricity or steam).
Scope 3, Category 9: downstream transport and distribution
This category includes estimated emissions from transport and 
distribution of energy products produced or refined by Shell. It does not 
include the emissions associated with transporting third-party products, 
which are included in Scope 3, Category 1. In order to avoid double 
counting the emissions from transport, Scope 1 and 2 emissions from 
transport included in our equity emissions were subtracted from the 
total in this category.
Scope 3, Category 11: use of sold products
This category includes estimated emissions from the use of sold energy 
products, such as LNG, GTL, pipeline gas, refined oil products and 
biofuels. The emissions consist of two sub-categories: products 
manufactured and sold by Shell, and third-party products sold by Shell.
This category does not include non-energy products that may have 
been combusted during use (for example, lubricants).
Biogenic CO
2 emissions from combustion of sold biofuels
Biogenic CO2 emissions from combustion of sold biofuels were 
estimated and reported separately outside of scopes. Methane 
and nitrous oxide have been included in Scope 3, Category 11 in 
line with the ISO 14064-1:2018 and GHG Protocol requirements.
We did not estimate biogenic CO
2 emissions in other Scope 3 
categories. It is assumed that the presence of biogenic emissions 
in other categories is negligible at present.
Other Scope 3 categories
As noted above, this Report only covers Scope 3 GHG emissions 
included in the boundary of our NCI metric.
 
Other Scope 3 GHG emissions can be found on our website:
www.shell.com/ghg.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
103 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
-> -> ->->
103
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Other regulatory disclosures
GHG emissions and energy consumption data - 
information provided in accordance with UK regulations
Data in this section are consolidated using the operational control 
approach. Under this approach, we account for 100% of the GHG 
emissions and energy consumption in respect of activities where
we are the operator, irrespective of our ownership percentage. 
Reporting on this operational control basis differs from that applied
for financial reporting purposes in the "Consolidated Financial 
Statements". We acknowledge the strong preference of the UK’s 
Financial Reporting Council (FRC) for companies to report the
GHG emissions and energy consumption data using the financial 
consolidation boundary and are working on including the data
and information on this boundary in our Annual Report in the future.
 
See "Basis of preparation – absolute emissions" on page 102.
 GHG emissions in million tonnes of CO2 equivalent
 
2022 2021 2020
Total global direct (Scope 1) [A] 51 60 63
UK including offshore area [B] 1.7 1.7 2.0
Market-based
Total global energy indirect (Scope 2) [C] 7 8 8
UK including offshore area 0 0 0
Location-based
Total global energy indirect (Scope 2) [D] 8 9 10
UK including offshore area 0.04 0.05 0.06
Intensity ratio in tonnes per tonne
Intensity ratio of all facilities [E] 0.27 0.27 0.25
[A] Emissions from the combustion of fuel and the operation of our facilities globally, 
calculated using global warming potentials from the IPCC’s Fourth Assessment Report.
[B] Emissions from the combustion of fuels and the operation of our facilities in the UK and
its offshore area, calculated using global warming potentials from the IPCC´s Fourth 
Assessment Report. 
[C] Emissions from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling for our own use 
globally, calculated using a market-based method as defined by the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. 
[D] Emissions from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling for our own use 
globally, calculated using a location-based method as defined by the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
[E] In tonnes of total direct and energy indirect GHG emissions per tonne of crude oil and 
feedstocks processed and petrochemicals produced in downstream manufacturing, oil
and gas available for sale, LNG and GTL production in Integrated Gas and Upstream.
For an additional breakdown by segment, see Scope 1 and 2 GHG intensity by segment 
section below.
The activity data used to calculate GHG intensity ratios at a portfolio 
level shown in the table above are reported on an operational control 
basis. As a result, they are not directly comparable with the production
data reported elsewhere in this Report, which are reported
on a financial control basis. The table below shows the numbers
used in the calculation of the intensity: 
 
Inputs used for calculating the GHG emissions intensity 
ratio
 
2022 2021 2020
A 8.1 Scope 1 - Direct GHG emissions 
[A] 51 60 63
B 8.2 Scope 2 - Energy Indirect GHG 
emissions [A] 7 8 8
C=A+B Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions [A] 58 68 71
D 6.5 Total oil and gas production 
available for sale [B] 111 128 149
E 6.6 Refinery crude and feedstock 
processed [B] 63 84 99
F 6.3 Chemicals total production [B] 23 25 26
G 6.4 LNG production [B] 9 10 8
H 6.6 GTL production [B] 6 6 6
I=D+E+F+G+H Total Upstream, Integrated 
Gas and Downstream activity 
[B] 212 253 288
J=C/I GHG intensity ratio [C] 0.27 0.27 0.25
[A] In million tonnes CO2 equivalent.
[B] In million metric tonnes of production.
[C] In tonnes of CO2 equivalent per tonne of production.
Energy use in our operations 
The energy consumption data provided below comprise own energy, 
generated and consumed by our facilities, and supplied energy 
(electricity, steam and heat) purchased by our facilities for our use. 
Energy consumption data reflect primary (thermal) energy (e.g. the 
energy content of fuels used to generate electricity, steam, heat, 
mechanical energy, etc.). This includes energy from renewable and
non-renewable sources. Own energy generated was calculated by 
multiplying the volumes of fuels consumed for energy purposes by
their respective lower heating values. Own energy generated that was 
exported to third-party assets or to the power grid is excluded. Thermal 
energy for purchased and consumed electricity was calculated using 
actual electricity purchased multiplied by country-specific electricity 
generation efficiency factors (from IEA statistics). Thermal energy for 
purchased and consumed steam and heat was calculated from actual 
steam/heat purchased multiplied by a supplier-specific conversion 
efficiency, or a generic efficiency factor where supplier-specific data 
were not available. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
104 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
104
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Our energy consumption decreased from 223 billion kilowatt-hours 
(kWh) in 2021 to 199 billion kWh in 2022, in line with the decrease 
in our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. Around 1% of the energy 
we used in 2022 for our operations came from low-carbon and 
renewable sources.
 Energy consumption in billion kilowatt-hours
  
2022 2021 2020
Own energy generated and 
consumed
Total energy generated and consumed 168 189 205
UK including offshore area 6.1 6.2 7.6
Purchased and consumed energy
Total purchased and consumed energy 31 33 36
UK including offshore area 0.2 0.2 0.2
Energy consumption
Total energy consumed 199 223 241
UK including offshore area 6.3 6.4 7.8
In 2022, we implemented a variety of measures to reduce the energy 
use and increase the energy efficiency of our operations.
Examples of some of the principal measures taken in 2022 (with 
estimated total savings of around 1,155 million kWh in 2022):
▪ At our GTL asset in Qatar, we completed several projects to reduce 
energy use and improve efficiency, e.g. by making improvements to 
catalyst performance which resulted in reduced generation of off-gas 
leading to lower energy consumption.
▪ At our Gulf of Mexico operations in the USA, we have implemented 
a project to reduce energy use and improve efficiency by using 
waste heat to generate steam.
▪ At our Upstream operations in the UK, we have completed several 
projects to reduce energy use and improve efficiency, for example 
by implementing an online model at Shearwater to optimise fuel 
gas usage.
▪ At our Scotford site in Canada, we have implemented several 
projects to reduce energy use and improve efficiency, for example 
by using analysers to optimise fuel usage.
▪ At our Geismar site in the USA, we have implemented several 
projects to reduce energy use and improve efficiency, for example 
by making changes to how some equipment operates.
▪ At our QGC operations in Australia, we implemented several 
projects to reduce energy use and improve efficiency, for example 
by introducing a CO
2 / energy performance dashboard for control 
room operators, which allowed operators to see gap to potential 
in efficiency savings based on real time operating data.
Examples of some of the principal measures taken in 2021 are
listed below (with estimated total savings of around 675 million kWh
in 2021):
▪ At our Scotford upgrader facility in Canada, we completed several 
projects to minimise energy use and improve efficiency, for example 
by installing new equipment and making changes to how some 
equipment operates.
▪ At our Gannet asset in the UK, we completed a project to enhance 
the efficiency of the fuel gas compressors by fine-tuning their 
performance to the specific needs of the platform.
▪ At our Jurong Island site in Singapore, we installed a second stage 
flash vessel to recover the heat for reuse in other equipment, and 
completed a project to minimise power consumption by one of 
the incinerators.
▪ At our Rheinland site in Germany, we completed several projects to 
reduce energy use and improve efficiency, for example, by installing 
more efficient equipment and changing maintenance schedules to 
improve efficiency.
▪ At our Bukom site in Singapore, we completed a project to reduce 
the consumption of natural gas in flare purge.
▪ At our Scotford refinery and chemical site in Canada, we completed 
several projects to reduce energy use and improve efficiency,
for example, by enabling the reduction of steam usage.
▪ At our QGC operations in Australia, we implemented a project
to reduce power requirements for gas compression.
The targets in this "Our journey to net zero" section, including those 
relating to the NCI targets, are forward-looking targets based on 
management’s current expectations and certain material assumptions 
and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause 
actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those 
expressed or implied herein.
EU Taxonomy Regulation
The EU Taxonomy Regulation is a classification system that translates 
the European Union’s environmental objectives into criteria for 
determining when an economic activity can be considered 
environmentally sustainable for investment purposes. As a UK company 
with its registered office and headquarters in London, Shell plc is not 
currently subject to the Taxonomy Regulation. Nevertheless, we elect 
to report against the taxonomy voluntarily because we recognise
the importance of increasing transparency about how companies
are progressing in the energy transition, even if the regulation is 
evolving and not yet mature.
 
For further information, see "Supplementary Information - EU Taxonomy 
Disclosure" on pages 327-339.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Our journey to net zero continued
105 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
105
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Our approach to sustainability
Our commitment to contribute to sustainable development has 
been part of the Shell General Business Principles since 1997. 
These principles, together with our Code of Conduct, apply to 
the way we do business and to our conduct with the communities 
where we operate. We have embedded this sustainability 
commitment in our Powering Progress strategy, and our 
business and decision-making processes.
 
For more information on our Powering Progress strategy, see page 6.
Sustainability reporting boundary and guidelines
Data in this section are reported on a 100% basis in respect of activities 
where a Shell company is the operator (unless noted otherwise). 
Reporting on an operational control basis differs from that applied for 
financial reporting purposes in the "Consolidated Financial Statements" 
on pages 237-307. Additional data on our 2022 environmental and 
social performance can be found in the Shell Sustainability Report.
Our reporting on sustainability follows certain guidelines. For example:
▪ As a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development, we support its updated criteria for membership 
from 2022, which include requirements for corporate transparency.
▪ Our reporting is informed by guidelines developed by Ipieca, the 
global oil and gas association for advancing environmental and 
social performance across the energy transition.
▪ We map our disclosures against the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board’s Oil & Gas - Exploration & Production Standard.
▪ In the "Our journey to net zero" section of this Report, we set
out our climate-related financial disclosures consistent with all 
the recommendations and recommended disclosures of the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
The UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) seek to address 
the world’s biggest challenges, including tackling climate change, 
ending poverty, improving health and education, and making cities 
sustainable. Governments are responsible for prioritising and 
implementing approaches that meet the SDGs, but achieving these 
tasks will require collaboration and collective action across businesses, 
governments and civil society. We strive to play our part in helping 
governments and societies to achieve the SDGs. The goals were one
of the considerations in the development of our Powering Progress 
strategy. We believe the actions we take as part of our strategy 
can help directly contribute to 13 of the SDGs, while indirectly 
contributing to others. 
 
See our website shell.com for information on how Shell is contributing to the 
SDGs.
Board oversight for sustainability
We describe Shell’s overall governance framework on pages 148-149 
and provide information on the roles of the Board, its committees, and 
the Executive Committee. The Safety, Environment and Sustainability 
Committee (SESCo) is one of the four standing committees of the 
Board of Directors of Shell plc. The (SESCo) assists the Board in 
reviewing the policies, practices, targets and performance of Shell, 
primarily with respect to safety, the environment including climate 
change, and broader sustainability.
 
More information on SESCo's role and activities in 2022 is provided on pages 
163-164.
The Annual Report on Remuneration (see pages 183-202) provides 
details of how the Shell scorecard captures key performance indicators 
for safety, environment and climate.
Shell General Business Principles
The Shell General Business Principles set out our responsibilities to 
shareholders, customers, employees, business partners and society. 
They set the standards for how we conduct business with integrity,
care and respect for people. As part of these principles, we commit 
to contribute to sustainable development, balancing short- and long-
term interests and integrating economic, environmental and social 
considerations into our decision-making. All Shell employees and 
contractors, and those at joint ventures we operate, are expected 
to behave in line with our General Business Principles.
HSSE & SP Control Framework
In Shell, health, safety, security, environment, and social performance 
(HSSE & SP) are vitally important to generating value. They are 
indispensable elements of our organisation. The Shell HSSE & SP 
Control Framework (CF) consists of mandatory manuals, which 
align with the Shell Commitment and Policy on HSSE & SP. Guidance 
documents, assurance protocols, and training materials support
the implementation of the manuals.
The HSSE & SP CF applies to every Shell entity and Shell-operated 
venture. It defines requirements and accountabilities at each 
organisational level, setting expectations for the management of HSSE 
& SP risks. We aim to ensure that significant HSSE & SP risks associated 
with our business activities are assessed and managed to minimise 
them as far as reasonably practicable. Our HSSE & SP functions 
provide expert advice and support businesses to improve HSSE & SP 
performance. The applicability of specific HSSE & SP CF requirements 
to contract staff depends on the defined HSSE & SP risks of the material 
or services procured as determined by the contracting Shell entity in
the context of the HSSE & SP CF. Contractors are required through 
appropriate contract provisions to adhere to either Shell requirements 
and standards or applicable industry standards.
We aim to minimise the environmental impact of new projects and 
existing operations. Shell conducts an environmental, social and 
health impact assessment for every major project. We engage with 
local communities and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in 
order to understand and respond to their concerns in a timely and 
suitable manner.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Respecting nature
106 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
106
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Assurance
The Shell Internal Audit & Investigations (SIAI) team is the single 
independent assurance organisation within Shell. Within SIAI, 
the HSSE & SP and Asset Management Assurance team provides 
assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of the HSSE & SP 
Control Framework (CF) through an audit programme. 
We expect joint ventures not operated by Shell to apply standards and 
principles substantially equivalent to our own. We support these joint 
ventures in implementing such standards and principles. We also offer 
to help them review the effectiveness of their implementation. Even if 
such a review is not conducted, we periodically evaluate HSSE & SP 
risks faced by the ventures that we do not operate. If a joint venture 
does not meet our HSSE & SP expectations, we seek to improve 
performance by working with our partners to develop and implement 
remedial action plans. We take care to invest responsibly in the 
energy transition and screen our investments against multiple criteria. 
When considering divestments, we collaborate with in-house and 
external experts, where appropriate, to conduct checks and examine 
key attributes of potential buyers. These attributes may include their 
financial strength, operating culture, HSSE policies, and approach to 
ethics and compliance. We also consider risk- and people-management 
processes and standards, community liaison practices, and social 
performance programmes.
Applicable attributes are assessed against Shell’s policies and the 
requirements of relevant local regulations. Divestments are often 
subject to the approval of regulatory authorities, which may in part 
depend on potential buyers’ HSSE capacity, compliance record, 
and asset-stewardship capabilities.
 
See the section "Risk management and controls" on page 20 for more 
information. 
Decommissioning and restoration
Decommissioning is part of the normal life cycle of every oil and gas 
structure. We work hard to close and dispose of installations in a safe, 
efficient, cost-effective and environmentally responsible manner. This 
includes restoring the surroundings of platforms and facilities in line with 
relevant legislation, while taking our own standards into account. We 
have decommissioning and restoration activities under way in Brazil, 
Brunei, India, the Netherlands, the UK and the USA. We seek to reuse, 
repurpose and recycle materials in decommissioning. At the end of 
2022, we reported $20 billion on our balance sheet for current and 
non-current decommissioning and other provisions (see Note 24 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 292-293).
Shell invests in innovative technologies for decommissioning and 
restoration which are developed in-house or by funding third parties. 
For instance, our Local Expander technology is used throughout the 
industry to plug unused wells and stop methane and liquids from 
escaping over time. The expander is easy to deploy and typically 
reduces greenhouse gas emissions by at least half compared to 
the alternative method of plugging.
See the business sections on pages 38-77 for more information.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Respecting nature continued
107 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Health
Process Safety
Personal SafetyHSSE & SP
Management System
Environment
The HSSE & SP Control Framework deﬁnes mandatory standards, requirements and accountabilities. 
The framework applies to Shell entities and Shell-operated ventures, including employees and contractor staff.
Contractor/uni00A0HSSE
Management
Transport
– Purpose of the manual
– Accountabilities and responsibilities
– Scope
– Requirements to be met
Mandatory manuals 
describe:  
Social Performance
Resources
Product Stewardship
Projects
Security
Shell Commitment and Policy on Health, Security,
Safety, the Environment and Social Performance
Health, Safety, Security, Environment & Social Performance Control Framework
107
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Respecting Nature
We recognise there is a growing urgency to protect and enhance 
biodiversity, preserve water quality and availability, improve air quality 
and use resources more efficiently. Nature loss and climate change 
are interconnected and need to be tackled together, as recognised 
at COP27 and COP15. 
Respecting the environment has been an integral part of the way we
do business for many years, as set out in the Shell General Business 
Principles and Shell Commitment and Policy on HSSE & SP. Respecting 
Nature is one of four pillars of our Powering Progress strategy, which 
we launched in 2021 (see page 6). Our commitments focus on four 
priority areas: biodiversity (land and marine environments), water, 
circular economy and waste, and air quality. They set out our 
ambitions for 2030 and later, as well as shorter-term goals.
We have included our commitments in our performance management 
and reporting systems and have been working to define baselines and 
track progress. Our Executive Committee is accountable for delivery
of the Respecting Nature goal.
We have made a commitment to include requirements in our 
purchasing policies that reflect our environmental framework and
take the energy efficiency, material efficiency and sustainability
of products into consideration in our purchases.
We will continue to seek opportunities to go further. Our environmental 
ambitions are underpinned by collaboration with our supply chains
and transparent reporting. 
Environmental standards
Shell's global environmental standards are set out in our HSSE & SP 
Control Framework and we seek to apply them wherever we operate. 
Our approach draws on external standards and guidelines, such as 
those developed by the World Bank and the International Finance 
Corporation. Our environmental standards include details of how 
to manage emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG); consume energy 
more efficiently; reduce gas flaring and monitor and improve air 
quality; prevent spills and leaks of hazardous materials; use less 
fresh water; and conserve biodiversity. 
When planning new major projects, we conduct detailed 
environmental, social and health impact assessments. The Shell HSSE & 
SP Standards require that we certify our major installations against an 
internationally recognised independent environmental management 
system standard if they have significant environmental risks. Major 
installations are crude oil and natural gas terminals; gas plants; 
manned offshore and onshore production platforms or flow stations; 
floating production and storage vessels; refineries; chemicals 
manufacturing facilities; mines; or upgraders. For the purpose of this 
Report, we did not count each major installation in Upstream and 
Integrated Gas separately. They were aggregated into their respective 
operating unit or operating company, such as Shell Upstream UK or 
Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij (NAM), in line with the scope 
of their certifications. At the end of 2022, 100% of major installations 
within that scope and operated by Shell were certified against the 
ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System or were in 
compliance with equivalent environmental frameworks required by 
local regulations. In addition, many installations that are not classified 
as major, such as lubricant plants or supply terminals, are also certified 
against ISO 14001 but are not included in the data above.
 
See also "Control Framework" on page 107 and "Our journey to net zero" 
on page 82 for more information on how we manage our GHG emissions. 
Biodiversity
We aim to minimise the impact of our onshore and offshore projects on 
biodiversity and ecosystems, whether life on land or life below water.
Since 2021, all projects in critical habitats and nature-based solutions 
projects must have measures in place to achieve a net-positive 
biodiversity result. If we decide to go ahead with a project that is in
a critical habitat, we develop a biodiversity action plan. This includes 
applying the mitigation hierarchy, a decision-making framework that 
involves a sequence of four key actions: avoid, minimise, restore and 
offset. We assess the potential impact of projects on biodiversity
as part of our impact assessment process. If there is an impact on 
biodiversity, the plan outlines the actions required to help achieve
a net-positive outcome for biodiversity. For example, in our recently 
announced Jackdaw project in the UK, our impact assessment 
determined there were no significant environmental or socio-economic 
impacts identified after implementation of mitigation measures.
Our commitments include replanting forests, achieving net-zero 
deforestation from new activities, while maintaining biodiversity and 
conservation value. Deforestation occurs when forests are converted 
to non-forest uses. We use the definition of forest used by the Food 
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
In 2022, around 145 hectares were deforested as a result of our new 
activities. Reforestation plans are in development which we intend to 
implement to help achieve biodiversity and contribute to conservation. 
We work with partners and stakeholders to create robust and credible 
plans unique to each reforestation project.
In 2003, we committed not to explore for, or develop, oil and gas 
resources in natural and mixed World Heritage Sites.
Circular economy and waste 
We are aiming for zero waste by reducing waste generated and 
increasing reuse and recycling in our businesses and supply chains. In 
2022, we completed 19 assessments on waste across our businesses, 
adding to five that were completed in 2021. These assessments 
determined a high number of varied waste sources. Further review 
is required before setting additional waste reduction, reuse and 
recycling goals. In 2023, we plan to take action to help address 
reductions across the most significant of Shell's waste streams.
In 2022, we disposed of 1,982 thousand tonnes of hazardous and non-
hazardous waste, which is relatively flat compared with 1,993 
thousand tonnes in 2021. We also sent 457 thousand tonnes of 
residual materials for reuse, recycling or beneficial use as a raw 
material in another process. For example, waste that might otherwise 
go to landfill can be incinerated to generate energy.
We continue to explore ways to reduce, reuse and recycle packaging 
across our supply chains, and introduce sustainable packaging. We 
have also set commitments to work with our suppliers and contractors 
to help end plastic waste in the environment:
▪ By 2030, we will increase the amount of recycled plastic in our
Shell-branded packaging to 30% and ensure that the packaging 
we use for our products is reusable or recyclable.
▪ We will increase the amount of recycled materials used to 
make our products, starting with plastics. Our ambition is to use 
1 million tonnes of plastic waste a year in our global chemical 
plants by 2025.
We are focusing on chemical recycling where we break down hard-to-
recycle plastics into raw materials through a technique called pyrolysis. 
The technique breaks down hard-to-recycle plastics into raw materials. 
The pyrolysis oil can then be used as feedstock in our chemical plants, 
replacing traditional hydrocarbon feedstock. This contributes to our 
circular economy ambition and prevents waste that would otherwise 
have gone to landfill or incineration.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Respecting nature continued
108 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
108
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

At the Shell Chemicals Park Moerdijk in the Netherlands, we are 
building a new pyrolysis oil upgrader. The plant will have the capacity 
to process up to 50,000 tonnes of pyrolysis oil per year.
At our Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore, we are also 
building a pyrolysis oil upgrader, with a capacity of 50,000 tonnes 
per year.
In 2021, we announced plans - along with our joint-venture partner 
BlueAlp - to build two hard-to-recycle plastic waste conversion units 
in the Netherlands. Since the signing, we have worked together 
to improve the operational set-up and process safety. The plant is 
expected to convert more than 30,000 tonnes of plastic waste 
a year into pyrolysis oil.
We are a member of Operation Clean Sweep, a voluntary programme 
which supports companies in the plastics value chain to put in place 
measures to prevent pellet loss.
Water
Managing our impacts on water and ensuring the availability of fresh 
water for our operations is a growing challenge in some parts of the 
world. Increasing demand for water resources, growing stakeholder 
expectations and concerns, and water-related legislation may 
reduce our access to water.
We manage water use carefully, and tailor our use of fresh water 
to local conditions and requirements. We sometimes use alternatives 
to fresh water in our operations. These include water that has been 
recycled from our operations, processed sewage water and 
desalinated water. We require that all Shell facilities and projects 
are assessed to see what risks they might pose to water availability. 
In places where water is scarce, we develop water-management 
action plans for using less fresh water, increasing water recycling 
and closely monitoring water use. 
We aim to reduce our consumption of fresh water in water-stressed 
areas by 15% by 2025 compared with 2018 levels.
At the end of 2022, four of our major facilities were in areas where 
there is a high level of water stress, based on analysis using water 
stress tools, including the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water 
Risk Atlas and local assessments. These four facilities are the Pearl GTL 
(gas-to-liquids) plant in Qatar, the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park in 
Singapore, the Shell Jurong Island chemical plant, also in Singapore, 
and the Tabangao Import Terminal in the Philippines. In 2022, these 
four facilities consumed 18 million cubic metres of fresh water, 
compared with 22 million cubic metres in 2021 and their baseline
of 25 million cubic metres in 2018.
In 2022, we continued to review our water use and stewardship.
We are applying procedures across our businesses to improve water 
efficiency and reduce fresh-water use. This has involved detailed 
assessments at six Shell sites: QGC upstream and midstream, Australia; 
Shell MDS, Malaysia; Shell Hazira LNG Terminal, India; Shell Energy 
and Chemicals Park Rheinland, Germany; and Shell Chemicals Park 
Moerdijk. The assessments involved desktop analysis and detailed site 
evaluations conducted with external organisations. A key learning from 
the assessments was that Water Stewardship principles can be applied 
to Shell’s onshore facilities. We expect to update our approach further 
in 2023.
In 2022, our overall intake of fresh water decreased to 156 million 
cubic metres, compared with 166 million cubic metres in 2021, 
mainly driven by divestments and 
the shutdown of some units at 
the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore, and at Jurong 
Island Singapore.
Around 85% of our intake of fresh water in 2022 was used for 
manufacturing oil products and chemicals, with the rest mainly used for 
oil and gas production. Around 30% of our fresh-water intake was from 
public utilities, such as municipal water supplies. The rest was taken 
from surface water such as rivers and lakes (around 55%) and 
groundwater (around 15%).
Additional information on our 2022 environmental performance 
is expected to be published in the Shell Sustainability Report in 
March 2023. 
Air quality
We are helping to improve air quality by reducing emissions from our 
operations and providing clean ways to power transport and industry. 
We follow our own standards and those of local regulators to manage 
airborne pollutants in our oil and gas production and processing, 
including emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides and volatile 
organic compounds.
Our sulphur oxide (SOx) emissions increased to 36 thousand tonnes 
in 2022, compared with 32 thousand tonnes in 2021. This increase 
was mainly because of turnarounds at the 
Shell Energy and Chemicals 
Park Singapore, and our Sarnia refinery in Canada.
Our nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions decreased from 105 thousand 
tonnes in 2021 to 93 thousand tonnes in 2022, in part because of the 
handover of OML 11 operations in Nigeria, divestment of our Permian 
assets in the USA, and fewer ships operated by Shell.
Our emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) decreased to 38 
thousand tonnes in 2022 from 45 thousand tonnes in 2021. Reductions 
were in part due to divestment of Permian assets in the USA, 
the 
handover of OML 11 operations in Nigeria, and reduced flaring.
 
For more information about our approach to biodiversity, circular economy and 
plastic waste, and water see our website shell.com.
Spills
Large spills of crude oil, oil products and chemicals associated with
our operations can harm the environment, and result in major clean-up 
costs, fines and other damages. They can also affect our licence to 
operate and harm our reputation. We have requirements and 
procedures designed to prevent spills. We design, operate and 
maintain our facilities with the intention of avoiding spills. To further 
reduce the risk of spills, Shell has routine programmes to reduce failures 
and maintain the reliability of facilities and pipelines. Our business units 
are responsible for organising and executing spill responses in line with 
Shell guidelines and relevant legal and regulatory requirements. Our 
offshore installations have spill response plans for when an incident 
occurs. These plans set out response strategies and techniques, 
available equipment, and trained personnel and contracts. We can 
engage specialist contracted services for oil spill response, including 
vessels, aircraft or other equipment and resources, if required, for large 
spills. We conduct regular exercises that seek to ensure these plans 
remain effective and fit for purpose.
We have further developed our ability to respond to spills to surface 
water. We have a worldwide network of trained staff to help with
this. We also have a global oil spill expertise centre, which tests local 
capability and maintains our ability to respond to a significant spill
into a marine environment. 
Spills still occur for reasons such as operational failure, accidents 
or unusual corrosion. In 2022, there were 54 operational spills of 
more than 100 kilograms compared with 42 in 2021. The weight of 
operational spills of oil and oil products in 2022 was 0.06 thousand 
tonnes, compared with 0.05 thousand tonnes in 2021. In 2022, all 
of the spills caused by sabotage and theft were in Nigeria. The number 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Respecting nature continued
109 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
109
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

of these spills decreased to 75 in 2022 from 106 in 2021, with the 
volume also decreasing to 0.6 thousand tonnes from 3.3 thousand 
tonnes in 2021.
 
See "Safety" section on page 121 for more information on emergency response.
Spills in Nigeria
In the Niger Delta, over the last 12 years, the total number of 
operational hydrocarbon spills and the volume of oil spilled from
them into the environment have been significantly reduced.
Most oil spills in the Niger Delta region continue to be caused by crude 
oil theft, the sabotage of oil and gas production facilities, and illegal 
oil refining, including the distribution of illegally refined products.
In 2022, the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited 
(SPDC), as operator of the SPDC joint venture (JV, Shell interest 30%), 
reported 10 operational spill incidents of more than 100 kilograms of 
crude oil, more than the nine reported in 2021. The volume of around 
0.01 thousand tonnes was less than the 0.03 thousand tonnes 
recorded in 2021.
SPDC [A] has an ongoing work programme to appraise, maintain 
and replace key sections of pipelines and flow lines, in order to reduce 
the number of operational spills. In 2022, around 27 kilometres
of pipelines and flow lines have been replaced. This work is 
organised through a proactive pipeline and flow line integrity 
management system. The system installs barriers where necessary, 
and recommends when and where pipeline sections should be 
replaced to prevent failures.
[A] Unless otherwise stated, all activities reported for or as relating to Shell Petroleum 
Development Company Limited (SPDC) in this section should be understood as SPDC 
acting as the operator of the SPDC joint venture (SPDC JV). SPDC, as the corporate
entity, owns 30% of the JV.
Spills caused by sabotage in 2022
In 2022, about 88% of the oil spills of more than 100 kilograms 
from the SPDC-operated facilities were caused by the illegal activities 
of third parties. In 2022, the volume of crude oil spills of more than 
100 kilograms caused by sabotage was around 0.6 thousand 
tonnes (75 incidents), compared with around 3.3 thousand tonnes 
(106 incidents) in 2021. The decreased number of incidents in 2022 
correlates with a shut-down of production for about six months because 
of an unprecedented increase of crude oil theft from the Trans Niger
Pipeline (TNP), which is operated by SPDC on behalf of the SPDC JV. 
SPDC continues to work with the government security agencies to 
maintain surveillance and address illegal activities of third parties, 
primarily along the SPDC JV pipeline and its operational areas.
In 2022, SPDC continued on-ground surveillance of its areas of 
operation, including its pipeline network, to mitigate third-party 
interference and ensure that spills are detected and responded
to as quickly as possible.
There are daily overflights of the most vulnerable segments of the 
pipeline network to identify any new spills or illegal activity. SPDC has 
introduced anti-theft protection mechanisms for key infrastructure such 
as wellheads and manifolds. The programme to protect wellheads 
with steel cages continues to help deter theft, and drones have been 
introduced to inspect pipelines and monitor security of operations.
By the end of 2022, a total of 311 steel cages were installed, including 
38 that had been upgraded with CCTV. This compared with a total of 
283 installed cages at the end of 2021. In 2022, out of 732 registered 
attempts, 47 were successful.
Response and remediation
Regardless of the cause of a spill, SPDC cleans up and remediates 
areas affected by spills originating from its facilities. In 2022, the time 
that SPDC needed to complete the recovery of free-phase oil – oil that 
forms a separate layer and is not mixed with water or soil – remained 
at around one week. This is the average time it takes to safely access
a damaged site, initiate containment to prevent further spread of the 
spill, and to start joint investigation visits with regulators, affected 
communities, and in some cases with NGOs, to clean up oil not
mixed with water or soil.
Clean-up activities include bio-remediation which stimulates micro-
organisms that naturally break down and use carbon-rich oil as a 
source of food and energy, effectively removing it. Once clean-up 
and remediation operations are completed, the work is inspected 
and, if satisfactory, approved and certified by the Nigerian regulators. 
With operational spills, SPDC also pays compensation to affected 
people and communities.
SPDC has been working with the International Union for Conservation 
of Nature (IUCN) since 2012 to enhance remediation techniques and 
protect biodiversity at sites affected by oil spills in its areas of operation 
in the Niger Delta. Based on this collaboration, SPDC has launched 
further initiatives to help strengthen its remediation and restoration 
efforts. In 2021, SPDC, IUCN, the Nigerian Conservation Foundation, 
and Wetlands International began working together on the Niger 
Delta Biodiversity Technical Advisory Group (BTAG), which continues 
to monitor biodiversity recovery at remediated sites.
SPDC also works with a range of stakeholders in the Niger Delta
to build greater trust in spill response and clean-up processes. For 
example, local communities participate in remediation work for 
operational spills. Various NGOs have sometimes gone on joint 
investigation visits with SPDC, government regulators, and members
of affected communities to establish the cause and volume of oil spills. 
SPDC has sustained efforts to raise awareness of and counter the 
negative effects of crude oil theft and illegal oil refining. Examples 
include awareness and education programmes, community-based 
pipeline surveillance, and promoting alternative livelihoods through 
Shell’s flagship youth entrepreneurship programme, Shell LiveWIRE. 
Bodo clean-up process
In 2015, SPDC and the Bodo community signed a memorandum of 
understanding (MOU) granting SPDC access to begin cleaning up 
areas affected by two operational spills that occurred in 2008. The 
MOU also provided for the selection of two international contractors 
to conduct the clean-up under the oversight of an independent project 
director. Engagement with the Bodo community and other stakeholders 
began in September 2015 and was managed by the Bodo Mediation 
Initiative. The clean-up project was delayed in 2016 and for most of 
2017 because of access challenges from the community. 
In September 2017, it was possible to start the first phase of clean-up 
and remediation activities. The clean-up consists of three phases: 
1) removal of oil from shoreline surfaces and mud flat beds;
2) remediation of soil and sediments; and 
3) planting mangroves and monitoring.
The first phase was completed in August 2018. Phase two's contract 
procurement process was completed in 2019. Remediation activities 
in the field started in November 2019. During 2020, work paused 
until November because of COVID-19 restrictions. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Respecting nature continued
110 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
110
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

During 2021 and 2022, the remediation of soil and sediments 
continued. By the end of 2022, remediation work was completed on 
more than 87% (about 60% by end of 2021) of about 1,000 hectares 
that had been designated for clean-up. Remediation is expected to 
be completed by the end of the third quarter of 2023.
The planting of mangrove seedlings (phase 3) started in 2021. Around 
two million mangrove seedlings need to be planted and survive to 
2025 to fulfil the project’s goal. By the end of 2022, close to 340,000 
seedlings had been planted. The National Oil Spill Detection and 
Response Agency (NOSDRA) had completed the certification for the 
planting on about a third of 722 hectares that have been remediated.
Ogoniland: commitment to the United Nations 
Environment Programme
SPDC remains committed to the implementation of the 2011 United 
Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Report on Ogoniland
which assessed contamination from oil operations in the region and 
recommended actions to clean it up. Over the last 11 years, SPDC has 
acted on all and completed most of the UNEP recommendations that 
were specifically addressed to it as the operator of the joint venture. 
The clean-up efforts are led by the Hydrocarbon Pollution and 
Remediation Project (HYPREP), an agency established by the federal 
government. The UNEP report had recorded 67 sites, of which two 
were classified as waste sites without hydrocarbon pollution. This left 
65 sites to be remediated, with all completed sites to be certified by
NOSDRA. In 2021, for nine sites, remediation and certification was 
completed, work on 11 sites continued in 2022. In 2022, remediation 
of another nine sites and certification of four were completed. Work on 
two sites continues in 2023. Also, for 13 sites, NOSDRA certified that - 
in contrast to the original report - remediation was not needed. For the 
17 sites, contracts have been awarded and field work is expected to 
commence in 2023. For the remaining 15 sites, remediation plans are 
being developed.
The UNEP report recommended creating an Ogoni Trust Fund (OTF) 
with $1 billion capital, to be co-funded by the Nigerian government, 
SPDC and other operators in the area. SPDC remains fully committed 
to contributing $900 million to the fund as its share over five years. 
SPDC contributed the first instalment of $180 million for the clean-up 
in July 2018, and released the second instalment of $180 million 
in 2019. HYPREP did not request the release of any funds in 2020. 
In 2021, HYPREP requested the release of funds for 2020 and 2021 
($360 million). SPDC paid $212 million in 2022, which brought the 
total contribution to the OTF to $572 million at the end of 2022.
Although remediation works continue to make progress, challenges 
remain. These include re-pollution, land disputes, environmental 
issues such as flooding caused by excessive rainfall, and security 
issues in Ogoniland.
UNEP continues to monitor the progress of the clean-up through 
its observer status at HYPREP´s Governing Council and the Ogoni 
Trust Fund. UN agencies such as the United Nations Development 
Programme and the United Nations Institute for Training and Research 
provide services to HYPREP in the areas of livelihood programmes, 
training and project services.
Hydraulic fracturing
Onshore Operating Principles
We use five aspirational operating principles which focus on safety, 
environmental safeguards, and engagement with nearby communities 
to address concerns and help develop local economies. We are 
working towards making all of our Shell-operated onshore projects 
where hydraulic fracturing is used to produce gas and oil from tight 
sandstone or shale consistent with these principles.
We consider each project – from the geology to the surrounding 
environment and communities – and design our activities using 
technology and innovative approaches best suited to local conditions. 
We also support government regulations consistent with these 
principles that are designed to reduce risks to the environment
and keep those living near operations safe.
Seismicity
Overall, we believe it is relatively unlikely that hydraulic fracturing or 
well operations for disposing of produced water will induce seismicity 
that is felt on the surface. We would also expect any such impact to be 
limited to a relatively small area. The geology of some places, though, 
does increase the risk of inducing seismicity that can be felt on the 
surface. With the production from the Groningen onshore gas field 
in the Netherlands, seismicity was felt.
Shell assesses the risk profile of each basin before entering and 
manages operations accordingly, often beyond regulatory 
requirements. We assess the subsurface formation and surface 
environment around our operations and have developed appropriate 
mitigation plans to follow if needed.
For information about our induced seismicity management practices, such as the 
"Onshore Operating Principles in Action: Induced Seismicity Fact Sheet", see our 
website Shell.com. 
 
For information on the Groningen onshore gas field in the Netherlands, see 
"Upstream" on pages 46-47. 
Environmental costs
We are subject to a variety of environmental laws, regulations and 
reporting requirements in the countries where we operate. Infringing 
any of these laws, regulations and requirements could harm our 
reputation and ability to do business, and result in significant costs, 
including clean-up costs, fines, sanctions and third-party claims. 
Ongoing operating expenses include the costs of preventing 
unauthorised discharges into the air and water, and the safe 
disposal and handling of waste. 
For information about our environmental costs, see Note 24 "Decommissioning 
and other provisions" on pages 292-293.
We place a premium on developing effective technologies that are 
also safe for the environment. But when operating at the forefront of 
technology, there is always the possibility that a new technology has 
environmental impacts that were not assessed, foreseen or determined 
to be harmful when originally implemented. While we believe we take 
reasonable precautions to limit these risks, we could be subject to 
additional remedial, environmental and litigation costs as a result of 
unknown and unforeseen impacts of operations on the environment. 
For information about risk management, see section "Risk management and 
controls" on page 23.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Respecting nature continued
111 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
111
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Contribution to society
We work to improve people’s lives through our products and activities, 
and by contributing to local communities and championing inclusion.
Shell's businesses are part of society and contribute to it by buying and 
selling goods and services in many countries. Our employees, suppliers 
and contractors are part of the local communities where Shell operates. 
Our activities also generate revenues for governments through the 
taxes and royalties we pay and the sales taxes we collect on their 
behalf. This helps governments fund health care, education, transport 
and other essential services.
In 2022, Shell paid $68.2 billion to governments (2021: $58.7 billion). 
We paid $13.4 billion in corporate income taxes and $8.2 billion in 
government royalties, and collected $46.6 billion in excise duties, sales 
taxes and similar levies on our fuel and other products on behalf of 
governments. In 2022, Shell spent $41.5 billion (2021: $37.5 billion) 
on goods and services from about 24,000 suppliers globally.
Social and economic impacts
We continue to assess our social and economic impact in a number 
of countries and regions. To do this, we have enlisted the help of 
Oxford Economics using its Global Sustainability Model.
In 2021, Shell had published its first report based on 2019 social and 
economic performance data. It detailed the impacts of our activities
in five countries: the Netherlands, UK, USA, Nigeria and India. 
In 2023, we are working to complete further reports, based on 2021 
social and economic performance data for the 27 European Union 
member states. This work includes a combined report for Poland, 
Bulgaria, Hungary, Czech Republic, and Slovakia, as well as 
individual reports on these five countries.
These new reports aim to provide performance data on Shell’s 
contribution to in-country gross domestic product, job numbers, tax 
payments to governments, and our spending on social and educational 
programmes. They also provide details of our operations and our 
procurement of goods and services in these regions and countries.
Supply chain engagement
Building strong relationships with our suppliers, including contractors, 
is essential to delivering new projects and running our operations. 
Suppliers often play an important part in Shell having a positive 
impact on local communities and achieving business success.
Shell aims to work with suppliers that behave in an economically, 
environmentally and socially responsible manner, as set out in our 
Shell General Business Principles and Shell Supplier Principles. 
In 2022, we spent around $41.5 billion on goods and services 
from around 24,000 suppliers globally.
The way we engage with our contractors and suppliers is based 
on our Shell Supplier Principles, which are embedded in contracts. 
They require contractors and suppliers:
▪ to commit to protect the environment in compliance with all 
applicable environmental laws and regulations;
▪ to use energy and natural resources efficiently; and
▪ to continually look for ways to minimise waste, emissions and 
discharge from their operations, products and services.
We will include requirements in our purchasing policies to reflect 
our environmental framework, and take the energy efficiency, 
material efficiency and sustainability of products into consideration 
in our purchases.
We also work with our partners and industry peers to include worker 
welfare in industry standards, guidance, and best practice. This helps 
raise expectations and levels of consistency across the industry. 
We participate in organisations such as:
▪ the Building Responsibly group of engineering and construction 
companies working together to raise the bar in promoting the rights 
and welfare of workers across the industry; 
▪
the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP); and
▪ Ipieca, the global oil and gas industry association for advancing 
environmental and social performance across the energy transition.
We also work closely with our key contractors. As a result, by the end 
of 2022, 23 of our biggest contractors had signed up to the Building 
Responsibly principles, which cover more than 1 million workers.
Helping our suppliers decarbonise
We continually work with our suppliers to find ways to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions across our supply chains. We seek 
to understand their energy needs and jointly identify potential
low-carbon solutions that are economically sustainable.
In 2021, we rolled out a new digital platform, the Shell Supplier 
Energy Transition Hub, free of charge to our supply chain and any 
other interested company. The platform enables them to set emission 
ambitions and track performance, share best practice and exchange 
emissions data with their own supply chains. By the end of 2022, 
1,039 of our suppliers had joined the platform, 460 of which have 
already set emission reduction targets. This is more than a fourfold 
increase on 2021 in both instances.
 
See our website shell.com for more information about how we engage with 
contractors and suppliers.
Social investment
We make social investments in areas determined by local 
community needs and priorities. This investment is sometimes 
voluntary, sometimes required by governments, or part of a 
contractual agreement. In 2022, we spent almost $260 million 
on social investment, of which 30% was required by government 
regulations or contractual agreements. We spent the remaining 
$182 million (70%) on voluntary social programmes.
 2022 Social Investment spend by theme
[A] CSED – Community Skills & Enterprise Development.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Powering lives
112 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
12%
30%
33%
c
7%
d
6%
e
6%
f
2%
g
2%
h
1%
i
1%
j
b
 Disaster Relief
Required SI
Education
CSED [A]
Energy Access
Community Development
Other
Health
Biodiversity
Road Safety
a
 
 b
a
2022 Social Investment spend by theme
[A] CSED – Community Skills & Enterprise Development
 c
d
 e
 f
 g
h
 i
j
112
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Around $92 million of our total social investment spend in 2022 was 
in countries that, according to the UN Development Programme’s 
Human Development Index 2021, have a gross national income 
of less than $15,000 a year per person.
 2022 Social Investment spend by region
 See our website shell.com for more information about our social investment.
Neighbouring communities
We engage with communities as part of our approach to managing 
human rights and providing access to remedy. Shell's HSSE & SP 
Control Framework helps us operate responsibly and avoid or minimise 
potentially negative social impacts of our operations. The requirements 
set out in the framework also help us in our aim to be a positive 
presence in the communities through, for example, local employment 
and contractual opportunities. When we divest assets or exit areas,
we apply well-established processes systematically to guide our risk 
assessment with the aim of leaving a positive legacy.
The requirements are supplemented by guidance that helps 
practitioners on the ground to engage with communities around our 
operations. Major projects and facilities operated by Shell have a 
social performance plan for managing potentially negative impacts, 
such as noise pollution, and maximising benefits, such as using 
local suppliers. These plans typically begin with defining the social 
environment, focusing in particular on people who may be especially 
vulnerable to the potential impacts of our operations. In larger facilities, 
we implement a community feedback mechanism for listening and 
responding to questions and resolving complaints in a timely manner. 
We have specific requirements to avoid, minimise or mitigate potential 
impacts on the traditional lifestyles and cultural heritage of Indigenous 
Peoples. We also have specific requirements to avoid, minimise or 
mitigate their involuntary resettlement.
We use our online community feedback tool, launched in 2020, to 
track and respond to questions, complaints and feedback that we 
receive. It allows our network of about 121 community engagement 
practitioners to document feedback and outcomes. They are the face 
of Shell in the communities and act as a bridge between communities 
and our activities.
We continually seek to improve our community engagement and to 
align with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
As part of this we work with selected sites to improve their community 
feedback mechanisms in the following areas:
▪ promoting public access to and transparency of the sites' community 
feedback mechanisms; 
▪ improving written procedures so they are better aligned with global 
good practice and more reflective of local circumstances; 
▪ providing clear steps for recognising alternative options for 
communities to seek remedy; and 
▪ respecting people's anonymity and data privacy. 
In 2022, we developed new community feedback mechanism 
procedures for four additional sites, bringing the total number of sites 
with operational feedback procedures aligned with the effectiveness 
criteria spelled out in the UN Guiding Principles to 16. Several more 
sites have procedures in place which are not specifically aligned with 
those criteria.
In 2022, we used the data in our online reporting tool to analyse how 
feedback was addressed. We found that most issues were resolved 
directly by the community engagement practitioners and the remainder 
were resolved by site management. 
 
See our website shell.com for more information about our work with 
communities.
Human rights
Human rights are fundamental to Shell's core values of honesty, 
integrity and respect for people. Our approach is informed by the UN 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Respect for human 
rights is embedded in the Shell General Business Principles and our 
Code of Conduct. 
We focus our efforts on four key areas, where respect for human rights 
is critical to the way we operate and where we have identified the 
highest risk of potential impact on human rights. These four key areas 
are the workplace, communities, supply chains and security. In 2022, 
we continued to take steps to improve our approach to human rights.
We expect joint ventures not operated by Shell to apply standards
and principles substantially equivalent to our own. The Shell Supplier 
Principles outline how we expect our contractors and suppliers to 
respect the human rights of their workforce, and to manage the social 
impacts of their activities on Shell's neighbouring communities.
In 2021, we published Shell's Approach to Human Rights, which 
increases transparency by providing our staff and external stakeholders 
with important information about our approach and commitment to 
human rights. The publication includes Shell’s position on respecting 
and promoting worker welfare. It also contains information on how we 
provide access to remedy. In 2022, supported by an external advisor, 
we developed recommendations to further improve our approach to 
human rights. We do this, for example, by expanding the disclosure 
of our human rights due diligence strategy and salient issues, seeking 
opportunities to expand the scope of contracting and procurement 
human-rights-related controls in our supply chain beyond Tier 1 
suppliers, and opportunities for a more integrated approach to 
human rights due diligence.
In 2021, we launched an updated human rights training course and 
by the end of 2022, about 460 Shell staff had completed the course 
and the roll-out is expected to continue through 2023. The course is 
mandatory for selected staff working in higher-risk focus areas, such as 
social performance, human resources, and contracting. We encourage 
all staff to do the course, regardless of their role, to build greater 
understanding of human rights across Shell.
An internal Human Rights Working Group with experts from different 
functions, including an external adviser, guides Shell businesses on best 
practice when implementing and reviewing our approach to human 
rights. In 2022, a committee composed of senior executives, chaired 
by the Director of Strategy, Sustainability and Corporate Relations, 
supported the work of the Human Rights Working Group. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Powering lives continued
113 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
13%
32%
33%
c
7%
d
7%
e 6%
f
2%
g
b
 Global
SSA
USA & Canada
MENA/CIS
APAC
Europe
Latin America
a
 
 b
a
2022 Social Investment spend by region
 c
d
 e
 f
 g
113
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Shell Supplier Principles
Human rights due diligence is particularly relevant when it comes to 
our supply chains. For example, we engage with suppliers who may be 
at risk of having issues with labour rights to assess their management 
systems before deciding whether to award a contract. If we are 
dissatisfied with the results of supplier assessments, we may work 
with suppliers to help them implement corrective actions. We may 
also conduct on-site audits or consider terminating contracts if 
serious or persistent shortcomings are found.
The most common shortcomings found during our supplier 
assessments typically relate to the following areas:
▪ freely chosen employment; 
▪ avoiding child labour; 
▪ working hours, wages and benefits; 
▪ dormitory, housing and working conditions; 
▪ equal opportunities and freedom of association; and 
▪ supply chain and performance management.
The Shell Supplier Principles include specific labour and human rights 
expectations for suppliers, including contractors. Shell companies 
use a joint industry supplier capability assessment that is delivered 
in collaboration with other operators. This is intended to support the 
improvement of working conditions in the participating companies’ 
supply chains.
Shell's salient human rights issues
Salient human rights are those that are most at risk from a company's 
operations. We focus on four areas where respect for human rights 
is particularly critical to the way we operate and where we have 
identified the highest risk of potential impacts on human rights.
In 2022, we completed a review of our salient human rights issues with 
the support of an external advisor, Business for Social Responsibility 
(BSR). As a result, we have grouped Shell's salient human rights issues 
into the focus areas, reflected in the table alongside.
The exercise of reassessing and identifying our current most salient 
issues is part of our continued effort to ensure our human rights 
approach is effective and fit for purpose. As our business evolves, 
our salient issues profile might change. We will continue to assess 
risks and adapt our approach as required.
 
Human rights
focus areas Salient issues
At the workplace ▪ Health and safety
▪ Discrimination
▪ Decent living conditions in workers' accommodation
▪ Access to adequate and readily available channels to 
voice concerns
In supply chains ▪ Labour rights in our supply chains, e.g. prevention of 
forced labour, access to remedy
▪ Safe and healthy working conditions
▪ Decent living conditions in worker accommodation
In communities ▪ Social impact management
▪ Vulnerable persons/communities
▪ Land access, livelihoods, and cultural heritage
▪ Engagement and access to remedy
In security ▪ Human rights impact on communities by private security 
and/or government security forces we rely on
▪ Security of employee and contract staff in high-risk 
environments where we work
 
See our website shell.com for more information about our approach to 
human rights.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Powering lives continued
114 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
114
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Our people
Our people play an important role in accelerating Shell's 
transition to a net-zero emissions business, while also 
helping us address the energy needs of today. We aim 
to develop the talent of our people within a diverse and 
inclusive environment where we can empower them to 
be their best.
All metrics throughout this section exclude the employees in portfolio 
companies, except for the metrics reflecting total employee numbers, 
actual number of employees by geography, percentage of women 
employees, and mandatory training courses.
Employee overview
We employed 93,000 people on a full- or part-time basis at the 
end of 2022. This compares with 83,000 at the end of 2021 and 
88,000 at the end of 2020. The data include people working in 
Shell subsidiaries, Shell-operated joint ventures and those seconded 
to non-Shell-operated joint operations, or ventures and associates. 
The employee numbers for 2021 and 2020 reflect headcount in 
the Shell HR system and full-time equivalent numbers for portfolio 
companies, which maintain their own HR systems.
Changes in headcount
In Shell companies, excluding portfolio companies, headcount fell 
by 5,000 from 82,000 to 77,000 between 2020 and 2021. 
At the end of 2022, after the implementation of our Reshape strategy 
which saw a reduction of more than 7,300 jobs in Shell, headcount 
grew by 2,000 to 79,000 people because of the recruitment of 
employees in Information and Digital Technology and Trading 
and Supply.
The Reshape job reduction includes 3,500 employees who elected to 
leave Shell on selective voluntary severance (SVS), thereby reducing 
the number of enforced redundancies. We have always sought to 
conduct the job reductions process in accordance with our core values 
of honesty, integrity, and respect for people. Throughout the Reshape 
process, we supported those facing job reductions by helping them to 
find internal and external opportunities to retrain or learn new skills.
In Shell portfolio companies which maintain their own HR system, full-
time equivalent employee numbers remained constant between 2020 
and 2021. At the end of 2022, the employee headcount in portfolio 
companies increased by 8,000 to 14,000 people driven mainly by 
acquisitions, growth in new activities and new disclosure in Mobility, 
Lubricants, Renewables and Energy Solutions as we continue to 
implement our Powering Progress strategy.
The table below presents the breakdown of employee numbers by 
geographical area. 
 
Note 32 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 306 provides the 
average number of employees by business segment.
 Actual number of employees by geographical area
 
Thousand
2022 2021 2020
Europe 30 27 28
Asia 32 30 31
Oceania 3 2 3
Africa 4 4 4
North America 23 18 20
South America 1 2 2
Total 93 83 88
Voluntary turnover is a reliable indicator of the effectiveness of Shell’s 
people management policies. In 2022, our voluntary resignations 
remained low compared with a range of industries. Around 5.0% of 
all Shell employees voluntarily resigned in 2022. This compared with 
4.4% in 2021.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Powering lives continued
115 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
In 2022
Employees
93,000
employees at December 31, 2022
Women employees
33%
women employees
Countries and territories
>70
countries in which we operate
Directors
55%
women on the Board of Directors
Executive Committee
22%
women in Executive Committee
Senior leaders
30%
women in senior leadership positions
Training
266,000
formal training days for employees, 
joint-venture partners, and contractors
Experienced hires
10,076
people joined Shell (40% women, 60% men)
Graduate hires
332
people joined Shell (49% women, 51% men)
115
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The tables below present the breakdown of employees by type of 
employment contract and age group.
 Percentage of employees by contract types
 
2022 2021 2020
Permanent Contract/
employment at-will [A]  9 8  %  9 8  %  9 8  %
Fixed Term Contract  2  %  2  %  2  %
[A] Employment at-will is used in the USA to describe employment contracts.
 Percentage of employees by age group
 
2022 2021 2020
Under 30 years old  1 4  %  1 3  %  1 4  %
Between 30-50 years old  6 4  %  6 5  %  6 4  %
Above 50 years old  2 2  %  2 2  %  2 2  %
Shell aims to be an attractive employer to its existing and prospective 
employees. Across the more than 70 countries we operate in, we 
provide competitive remuneration with a range of benefits, such as 
global minimum maternity leave of 16 weeks. From January 2023, we 
offer at least eight weeks paid parental leave for non-birthing parents. 
People are our most important asset and we believe in developing our 
employees. Career progression tools, such as an internal job portal, 
individual development plans, coaching and formal training have 
been in place for many years. We offer employees the opportunity to 
develop their careers within Shell, including rotations across different 
parts of the businesses to advance their skills and progress. 
In 2022, 10,300 Shell employees were promoted (40% of which 
were women and 60% men), compared with 10,000 promotions 
(44% of which were women and 56% men) in 2021.
People development is a priority in company-wide and leadership 
communications. We account for learning as part of annual budget 
planning and we aim to ensure our learning curricula are updated
and accessible to all employees.
In 2022, 266,000 formal training days were delivered to employees, 
joint-venture partners and contractors. This compares with 271,000 in 
2021 and 234,000 in 2020. We aim to build the confidence of our 
employees in their employability throughout the energy transition.
Shell has increased learning offerings related to new skills that may 
be needed. In 2022, around 4,000 Shell employees completed 
courses on various topics, including hydrogen production, carbon 
capture and storage, and energy management.
We have focused efforts on expanding access to virtual courses and 
on a return to in-person training workshops, which were paused due 
to the pandemic. 
Team leadership plays a key role in driving employee engagement. 
We seek to develop leaders through learning programmes, domestic 
and international assignments, and project opportunities. In 2022, 
25% of team leaders in Shell received access to a classroom learning.
Employee engagement and support 
Hearing from employees provides valuable information for 
management and contributes to the governance of Shell. Insight into 
employee needs and perspectives enables Shell to continually learn 
and improve its policies, processes, and practices.
Management regularly engages with employees, including through 
internal and external elected employee representatives, and a range of 
local formal and informal channels. Our employee engagement forums 
also include webcasts and all-employee messages from our CEO and 
other senior leaders; town halls and team meetings; virtual coffee/chai 
connects; interviews with senior management, and internal social 
platforms. These engagements enable Shell to maintain a locally 
constructive employee and industrial relations environment.
In June 2022, the Chair of the Board, Sir Andrew Mackenzie, met 
with representatives of the Shell European Workers Council (SEWC) 
as part of their annual plenary meeting at Shell Centre in London. 
Also in 2022, various members of the Board visited sites in Singapore 
and the UK, where they engaged with Shell employees.
 
For further information on stakeholder engagement, see "Workforce 
engagement" on pages 157-158.
The Shell People Survey is one of the key tools we use to measure 
employee engagement, motivation, affiliation and commitment to Shell. 
It provides insights into employees’ views and has had a consistently 
high response rate of above 80% since 2016. In 2022, the survey 
attained its highest ever response rate of 87% (up 3.4 percentage 
points from 2021). We believe that increased employee engagement 
can result in better business performance and safety. The Shell People 
Survey 2022 showed a positive, upward trajectory across all Shell 
businesses and functions. The average employee engagement score 
rose three points to 78 from the 2021 level and returned to the level 
seen in 2019 and 2020, our highest engagement score in the last 10 
years, reflecting the resilience of our people during a time of change. 
Across Shell, employees also have access to senior leaders, local 
employee forums and employee resource groups. The Shell Global 
Helpline is available for employees to raise concerns or dilemmas, 
anonymously if they wish.
Employee well-being 
Shell believes people perform at their best when they feel cared for. 
We operate in locations with different local regulations and we seek
to comply with all applicable local laws and regulations, including
on working hours. Across Shell operations, we aim to eliminate 
discrimination in employment, forced labour, and child labour. We also 
respect the right to collective bargaining and freedom of association. 
We take pride in fostering an environment that provides employees 
with the flexibility and support to focus on their mental, social, physical, 
and financial well-being. Shell has implemented initiatives and 
programmes to raise awareness of well-being at work, such as our Be 
Well, Care for Self, and I’m Not OK campaigns. We aim to develop 
individual and team skills, mindsets, and behaviours to create a safe 
working environment, to nurture a culture of care, and to continuously 
improve the support Shell offers employees.
Flexible work 
Shell’s offices remain essential to business performance. Through
them we seek to build a sense of community, foster affiliation, and 
collaboration, and create a place where employees feel welcomed and 
valued. Shell wants individuals and teams to perform at their best and 
key to this is to enable people to balance their work and personal lives. 
Following the pandemic, Shell launched its Future of Work guide to 
give employees and teams advice and greater choice in determining 
how, when and where they work to better meet business and their
own needs. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Powering lives continued
116 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
116
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

We provide our people with what they need to work in our offices 
and other locations, with flexibility based on their reasonable business 
and personal needs. We also seek to provide what they need if they 
are working remotely. In 2022, we continued our home-working 
ergonomics programme, providing funding for proper office equipment 
for home use by existing employees and new joiners. We also provided 
tips on setting up and maintaining good ergonomics, working with 
others virtually and maintaining productivity. In 2022, more people 
chose to make use of Shell’s flexible working options.
Mental well-being 
At Shell we strive to reduce the stigma related to mental ill health 
through open conversations, planned campaigns at country and global 
level, communications from senior leaders, engagement with elected 
employee representatives, and our experience-sharing portal for 
employees. In 2022, we developed and piloted our Global Mental 
Health Strategy and Programme designed to build a culture that 
promotes good mental health and protects against mental ill-health. 
The programme includes timely access to quality mental health support 
through Shell’s Employee Assistance Programme, which is available in 
most locations, and delivers professional counselling services. It also 
offers resources to help reduce the risk of stress and burnout.
Financial well-being 
In 2022, Shell published its Fair Pay Principle, which provides 
transparency internally and externally on the criteria Shell uses to pay 
employees fairly and competitively. The Fair Pay Principle includes our 
pay adjustment approach, assurance processes for paying a living 
wage and how we seek to mitigate bias in pay-related decisions. The 
cost-of-living crisis in 2022 has caused concerns for many people and 
during the year we have sought to help our employees navigate these 
challenging times. One of the ways in which we have done this is by 
sharing pay-related information more frequently in a bid to remove 
as much uncertainty as possible.
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Our Powering Lives ambition is to become one of the world’s most 
diverse and inclusive organisations, a place where everyone – 
including employees, customers, partners and suppliers – feels valued, 
respected and has a strong sense of belonging. This ambition underpins 
our strategy and we believe it is the right thing to aspire to, making
us a stronger organisation. We have set goals for diversity, equity
and inclusion (DE&I), and our CEO and Executive Committee are 
accountable for our progress. In 2022, we launched new external 
DE&I content on shell.com/DEI which includes data and proof points
to show our progress against our DE&I ambitions.
Living by our values
Our core values of honesty, integrity and respect for people underpin 
our DE&I approach. The Shell General Business Principles, Code of 
Conduct and Ethics and Compliance Manual help everyone at Shell 
act in line with our values. 
All Shell employees and contractors with access to our HR systems
are required to complete two mandatory training courses on DE&I, 
Conscious Inclusion and Respect in the Workplace, which reinforce 
expected behaviours for a respectful, inclusive workplace and Shell’s 
stance against discrimination and harassment, including bullying and 
sexual harassment.
Our inclusion strategy is about everyone. In 2022, our Shell People 
Survey showed a result of 82 points out of 100 for all questions relating 
to DE&I (up two points from 2021).
We also started rolling out voluntary self-identification for employees 
in our HR system. Employees now have the option to voluntarily 
declare their gender, sexual orientation, race and ethnicity, and 
disability, where relevant and legal. This data can enable us to 
better track and improve our progress.
We are focusing on removing barriers and taking targeted action 
to create equity of opportunity in four strategic priority areas: gender; 
race and ethnicity; lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT+); 
and enablement and disabilities inclusion. These focus areas are 
sponsored by various members of the Executive Committee. 
Gender
We strive for gender equality across Shell and we have signed the 
World Economic Forum declaration on closing the gender gap in the oil 
and gas sector. We have also endorsed the Catalyst CEO Champions 
for Change initiative, where more than 70 chief executives seek to 
accelerate the advancement of women, especially those from ethnic 
minorities, into senior leadership and board positions. 
As at December 31, 2022, 55% of the members of Shell plc's Board 
were women up from 50% in 2021, with one woman also being the 
Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director. This exceeds the FTSE 
Women Leaders Review target of 40% women on boards by 2025 and 
is on track with our own ambition. Representation of women on the 
Executive Committee was 22% at the end of 2022.
At the end of 2022, the representation of women within our Senior 
Executive [A] positions was 25% compared with 27% in 2021. 
Our ambition is to improve women's representation in this group 
every year to achieve gender equality.
[A] Senior  Executives include the Executive Committee. 
By 2025, we aim to have 35% representation of women in our Senior 
Leadership [A] and at least 40% representation by 2030. In 2022, 
30.4% of Senior Leadership were women, up from 29.5% in 2021. 
[A] Senior Leadership is a Shell measure based on compensation grade levels and is distinct 
from the term "senior manager" in the statutory disclosures in the table below.
 Gender diversity data (at December 31, 2022)
 
Gender diversity data Men Women
Directors of the Company  5  4 5  % 6  5 5  %
Senior managers [A]  827  6 8  % 381  3 2  %
Employees (thousand)  62  6 7  % 31  3 3  %
[A] Senior manager is defined in section 414C(9) of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
accordingly, the number disclosed comprises the Executive Committee members who were 
not Directors of the Company, and other directors of Shell subsidiaries. 
In 2022 the proportion of women amongst experienced hires was 
40%, compared with 44% in 2021. Our graduate hires number has 
consistently been 48% or 49% women, against our 50% ambition since 
2019. In 2022, 49% of our graduate hires were women and 51% were 
men. Our overall representation of women in Shell was 33% at the end 
of 2022.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Powering lives continued
117 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
117
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

A crucial element of improving gender balance is addressing any 
gender pay gap and we are working on this. For example, in the UK, 
our 2022 average differences of pay of all men and women across 
all in-scope [A] Shell companies in the UK narrowed to 11.7% - 20.7%, 
compared with 7.3% - 21.8% in 2021. In parallel, the average 
differences of bonuses between men and women ranged from 
-0.2%-54.2% in 2022. In 2021, the top of this range was 54.9%. 
This gap exists for several reasons, including fewer women in senior 
leadership positions and fewer women in higher-paid specialist roles. 
More information about the UK gender pay gap at Shell can be 
found on our website.
[A] Shell companies in the UK with 250 or more employees in line with UK government 
requirements on gender pay gap reporting. 
We also conduct an annual global gender pay equity review using a 
robust statistical approach. Countries in this review include Australia, 
France, the UK and South Africa. We take immediate action if required. 
Race and ethnicity
We are working to address racial inequity and create an inclusive work 
environment where everyone feels valued. In 2020, we created the 
Shell Global Council for Race supported by a 20-member Employee 
Advisory Board composed of members from a diverse mix of racial 
and ethnic backgrounds. The Council, which is sponsored by the CEO, 
aims to advance diversity in our workforce so that it better reflects 
communities where we work and from which we draw talent,
and focuses on the USA, the UK and the Netherlands.
At December 31, 2022, Shell had one director from an minority 
ethnic group on its Board of Directors. At the time of publication of 
this report, Shell plc’s Board had three members from a minority ethnic 
background, which exceeds the UK's Parker Review recommendation 
of at least one. In addition, one of our Executive Committee members 
identifies as being from a minority ethnic group.
In the USA: 
▪ In 2022, 13.7% of our US employees were Asian, 8.7% Black or 
African American, 11.9% Hispanic Latino, 63.5% White and 2.2% 
from other racial and ethnic groups, as reported to the US 
Department of Labor.
In the UK:
▪ In 2022, 14.5% of our UK employees identified as Asian, 3.7% 
Black, 2.4% Mixed, 76.5% White and 3.0% from other ethnic 
minority background.
[A] As ethnicity declaration is voluntary, our ethnicity declaration rate is not 100% and all 
calculations are based on a declaration rate of 82.7% in the UK. The 17.3% of our 
workforce who have not provided data or have chosen not to declare their ethnicity 
were not included in our calculations.
▪ We have set a recruitment ambition to have 8% Black representation 
in our graduate and experienced hires by 2025, to increase 
representation in line with UK society through actions such as 
mentoring and outreach.
▪ Shell in the UK was one of the first FTSE 100 companies to voluntarily 
publish its ethnicity pay gap data in November 2020.
In the Netherlands, we continued to implement our first Ethnic Inclusion 
plan. We launched voluntary self-identification for race and ethnicity 
for employees in our HR system in 2022.
In addition, Shell is working with key suppliers to ensure they 
understand Shell’s DE&I ambitions and expectations. For more 
information on our progress in the UK, the USA, and the Netherlands, 
see our website shell.com/DEI.
LGBT+
We are working to advance lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender 
plus (LGBT+) inclusion within Shell and the communities where 
we work. We promote equal opportunity and aim to create an 
environment where people feel included, regardless of sexual 
orientation or gender identity. Our approach reinforces respect for 
people and provides psychological safety for our LGBT+ employees. 
Most of our work around LGBT+ inclusion happens at a country level 
in line with local policies, laws and regulations. 
In 2022, we published our Global LGBT+ Inclusion Guidelines, which 
are based on best practice and are designed to help country teams 
develop their own plans.
We benchmark ourselves externally. In 2022, we were recognised 
as well advanced in our LGBT+ Workplace inclusion journey in the 
Workplace Pride Global 2022 Benchmark. We also received a 
100% score from the Human Rights Campaign Foundation's Corporate 
Equality 2022 Index and have earned this 100/100 award every year 
since 2016.
Shell's LGBT+ forum has 15 chapters globally, with the most recent 
employee resource groups established in Singapore and Spain.
Disability inclusion and enABLEment 
We aim to create an inclusive, psychologically safe and accessible 
environment where people with disabilities can excel. We provide 
support and make adjustments for people with disabilities during the 
recruitment process and throughout their careers with Shell. This 
includes equal access to valuable educational resources, training 
programmes, and emphasis on personal and professional development. 
Our Global enABLEment Coalition, made up of leaders from our 
Employee Resource Groups, allies and key teams, helps to shape 
and drive the enABLEment strategy across Shell. The Coalition provides 
expertise and advice to Shell leaders, our businesses and our employee 
resource groups for accessibility, disability inclusion and enABLEment.
In 2022, we rolled out our Global enABLEment priorities which set 
out the actions we intend to deliver in countries around the world to 
support Disability Inclusion and enABLEment. We now have 15 enABLE 
employee resource groups around the world. 
Our workplace accessibility (WPA) service covers 81 locations around 
the world to ensure that all employees have access to reasonable 
workplace adjustments so that they can work effectively. The team is 
supported by functions such as Shell Health, Human Resources, Real 
Estate and IT. During the pandemic we combined our home-working 
ergonomics programme with WPA to help all employees to continue 
to work from home. In collaboration with Purple Space, a professional 
development hub for disability network leaders, we piloted a personal 
development course for our employees with disabilities based in the 
UK. We also launched a LinkedIn learning path called "Spotlight – 
Disability Inclusion: A Guide for Line Managers".
We are part of the Valuable500, which connects 500 of the world’s 
most influential global businesses to create a tipping point for large-
scale disability inclusion. We are also active members of the Business 
Disability Forum. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Powering lives continued
118 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
118
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Code of conduct
Shell is committed to prohibiting bribery, money laundering and tax 
evasion, and to conducting business in line with our Shell General 
Business Principles and Code of Conduct. We maintain a global anti-
bribery and corruption (ABC) and anti-money laundering (AML) 
programme designed to prevent, detect, remediate, and learn from 
potential violations. This is in line with the UN Global Compact 
Principle 10 which states that businesses should work against 
corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 
We do not tolerate the direct or indirect offer, payment, solicitation 
or acceptance of bribes in any form, nor the facilitation of tax evasion. 
Facilitation payments are also prohibited. The Shell Code of Conduct 
includes specific guidance for Shell employees and contractors on 
requirements to avoid or declare actual, potential or perceived conflicts 
of interest, and on offering or accepting gifts and hospitality. 
To support the Code of Conduct, we have mandatory risk-based 
procedures and controls that address a range of compliance risks and 
ensure that we focus resources, reporting and attention appropriately. 
By making a commitment to our core values of honesty, integrity and 
respect for people, and by following the Code of Conduct, employees 
and contractors help protect Shell's reputation.
The pandemic led to an increase in hybrid working and this has 
required Shell to focus even more on conduct risk. Managerial duties 
have increased to maintain oversight of employees more frequently 
working from locations outside of an office and where information 
must continue to be safeguarded. All employees and contractors 
are required to undertake mandatory training courses in the Code 
of Conduct and Safeguarding Information every four and two 
years respectively. We continue to reiterate and emphasise that 
adherence to Shell's compliance requirements is essential to 
protecting our business.
Our ethics and compliance requirements are articulated through our 
policies, standards and procedures and supported by the Ethical 
Decision-Making Framework, a tool to help employees think through 
and discuss, in a structured way, the potential legal, ethical and 
external consequences of decisions. They are communicated to Shell 
employees and contractors and, where necessary and appropriate, 
to agents and business partners. We monitor and report internally 
on adherence to select ethics and compliance requirements, such as 
mandatory training completion and due diligence screening. We pay 
particular attention to our due diligence procedures when dealing with 
third parties. We also make our requirements clear to third parties 
through a variety of measures, such as standard contract clauses. 
We offer a good practice anti-bribery and corruption e-learning course 
to third parties that may not have a training programme in place. 
We have published our Ethics and Compliance Manual on shell.com. 
The Shell Ethics and Compliance Office, with assistance from Legal, 
helps the businesses and functions to implement the ABC/AML and 
other programmes, assess risks, and monitors and reports on progress. 
In 2022, lawyers and compliance professionals supported Shell 
businesses and functions in addressing the implications of the war in 
Ukraine. They provided legal, and ethics and compliance support, 
including in relation to Shell’s intention to withdraw from Russian 
hydrocarbons. The Shell Ethics and Compliance Office regularly 
reviews and revises all ethics and compliance programmes to ensure 
they remain up to date with applicable laws, regulations and best 
practices. This includes incorporating results from relevant internal 
audits, assurance reviews and investigations, and periodically 
commissioning external reviews and benchmarking. 
We investigate all good-faith allegations of breaches of the Code of 
Conduct, however they are raised. We are committed to ensuring all 
such incidents are investigated by specialists in accordance with our 
Investigation Principles. Allegations may be raised confidentially and 
anonymously through several channels, including a Shell Global 
Helpline operated by an independent provider. We align with 
local reporting and investigation channels where required by law.
In 2022, there were 1,790 entries to the Shell Global Helpline: 
1,381 allegations and 409 enquiries. The Business Integrity 
Department is a specialist investigative unit within Shell Internal 
Audit that is responsible for managing the Shell Global Helpline 
and the Group level incident management procedures. The Board 
has delegated the oversight of the functioning of the Shell Global 
Helpline to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee is authorised to 
establish and monitor the implementation of procedures for the receipt, 
retention, proportionate and independent investigation and follow-up 
action of reported matters.
Violation of the Code of Conduct or its policies can result in disciplinary 
action, up to and including contract termination or dismissal. In some 
cases, we may report a violation to the relevant authorities, which 
could lead to legal action, fines or imprisonment. 
Internal investigations confirmed 183 substantiated breaches 
of the Code of Conduct in 2022. Disciplinary action was taken 
against 216 group employees and contractors, including 53 contract 
terminations. In 2022, most violations of our Code concerned the 
categories of Harassment, Conflict of Interest and Protection of Assets.
Employee share plans
We have a number of share plans designed to align employees' 
interests with our performance through share ownership. 
 
For information on the share-based compensation plans for Executive Directors, 
see the "Directors' Remuneration Report" on pages 178-182.
Performance Share Plan, Long-term Incentive Plan 
and exchanged awards under the BG Long-term 
Incentive Plan 
Under the Performance Share Plan (PSP), 50% of the award is linked 
to certain indicators described in "Performance indicators" on pages 
27-28, averaged over the performance period. For 2019, 12.5% of the 
award was linked to free cash flow (FCF) and the remaining 37.5% 
was linked to a comparative performance condition which involves 
a comparison with four of our main competitors over the performance 
period, based on three performance measures. For 2020, 11.25% of 
the award was linked to the FCF measure and 5% was linked to an 
energy transition measure. The remaining 33.75% was linked to the 
comparative performance condition. From 2021 and 2022, 10% of 
the award is linked to the FCF measure and 10% is linked to an energy 
transition measure. The remaining 30% is linked to the comparative 
performance condition. From 2023, 12.5% of the award is linked to 
an organic FCF measure and 12.5% is linked to an energy transition 
measure. The remaining 25% is linked to the comparative performance 
condition, which is based on two performance measures. 
Under the Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards made in 2019 and 
2020, 22.5% of the award is linked to the FCF measure and 10% is 
linked to an energy transition measure. The remaining 67.5% is linked 
to the comparative performance condition mentioned above. From 
2021 and 2022, 20% of the award is linked to the FCF measure and 
20% is linked to an energy transition measure. The remaining 60% is 
linked to the comparative performance condition. From 2023, 25%
of the award is linked to an organic FCF measure and 25% is linked
to an energy transition measure. The remaining 50% is linked to 
the comparative performance condition, that is based on two 
performance measures. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Powering lives continued
119 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
119
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Separately, following the BG acquisition, certain employee share 
awards made in 2015 under BG's Long-term Incentive Plan were 
automatically exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in the 
Company. The outstanding awards take the form of nil-cost options. 
Under all plans, all shares that vest are increased by an amount equal 
to the notional dividends accrued on those shares during the period 
from the award date to the vesting date. In certain circumstances, 
awards may be adjusted before delivery or subject to clawback after 
delivery. None of the awards result in beneficial ownership until the 
shares vest. 
 
See Note 27 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 300. 
Restricted share plan
Under the Restricted Share Plan (and the Free Share Schedule to 
the Shell Share Plan 2014), free share awards are made on a highly 
selective basis to senior staff. Shares are awarded subject to a two- 
or three-year retention period. All shares that vest are increased by 
an amount equal to the notional dividends accrued on those shares 
during the period from the award date to the vesting date. In certain 
circumstances, awards may be adjusted before delivery or subject 
to clawback after delivery. 
Global Employee Share Purchase Plan
Eligible employees in participating countries may participate in the 
Global Employee Share Purchase Plan. This plan enables them to make 
contributions from net pay towards the purchase of the Company's 
shares at a 15% discount to the market price, either at the start or at the 
end of an annual cycle, whichever date offers the lower market price. 
UK Shell All Employee Share Ownership Plan
Eligible employees of participating Shell companies in the UK may 
participate in the Shell All Employee Share Ownership Plan, under 
which monthly contributions from gross pay are made towards the 
purchase of the Company's shares. For every six shares purchased 
by the employee, one matching share is provided at no cost to 
the employee. 
Powering Progress Share Award
This was a one-off share award granted to all eligible employees 
of Shell on June 18, 2021. This award supports employee 
engagement in the Powering Progress strategy. These awards 
vested on June 20, 2022. 
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Powering lives continued
120 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
120
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Our approach to safety
Shell's Powering Progress strategy is underpinned by our focus on 
safety. We aim to do no harm to people and to have no leaks across 
our operations. We call this our Goal Zero ambition.
We seek to improve safety by focusing on the three areas where the 
safety risks associated with our activities are highest: personal, process 
and transport. We strive to reduce risks and to minimise the potential 
impact of any incident, with a particular emphasis on the risks with 
the most serious consequences if something goes wrong. 
In 2020, we started a multi-year process of refreshing our approach 
to safety for all employees and contractors. Our updated approach is 
rooted in a consistent focus on human performance. We aim to better 
understand the gap between how we anticipate work will be done 
safely and how the work is actually carried out. We work to prevent 
incidents by maintaining safety barriers and providing training. We 
acknowledge that people make mistakes and not all incidents may 
be preventable. We continue to focus more on installing adequate 
controls to create capacity to fail safely. With that, we believe 
that we will enhance our safeguards and reduce the likelihood 
of serious injuries.
People are key to executing complex tasks and to finding solutions 
to problems. We aim to apply a learner mindset, by which we mean 
the belief that we can always improve, enhance individual capabilities, 
learn from mistakes and successes, and speak up without being 
punished. We seek to create conditions that encourage employees 
and contractors to share ideas and concerns without fear of rejection 
or punishment.
In 2022, as part of our new approach to our safety programme, we 
focused on conducting detailed change impact assessments across 
the Group to assess the extent to which our new safety principles 
are being integrated. These assessments covered all change areas, 
including mindset and behaviours, pre-work processes, and 
relationships with third-party contractors. We completed 49 of 52 
assessments of assets, projects, functions and businesses within Shell 
(the remaining assessment to be completed in 2023). In addition, seven 
non-operated joint ventures (NOVs) elected to embed elements of our 
approach to safety in their improvement plans.
We work with a large number of our contractors and suppliers so they 
understand our safety requirements. We strive to help improve safety 
throughout the energy industry by sharing our safety standards and 
experience with other operators, contractors and professional 
organisations. This helps lead to the standardisation of safety practices 
within the industry, such as the IOGP Life-Saving Rules, Helicopter 
Recommended Practices, Site Construction Safety, and programmes 
from the Energy Institute, e.g. Hearts and Minds for fair event handling.
On November 1, 2022, we welcomed safety leaders from BP, Chevron, 
ExxonMobil, IOGP, TotalEnergies and many others active in the field 
of capital projects and wells to participate in the first industry Safety 
Collaboration Forum (SCF) in Houston. Delegates declared their intent 
to continue to play an active role in making the industry safer and more 
efficient.
Personal safety
We continue to strengthen the safety culture and leadership among 
our employees and contractor staff. This aligns with our focus on caring 
for people. The set of nine industry Life-Saving Rules came into effect at 
Shell on January 1, 2022. By the end of 2022, around 126,000 staff 
and contractors had completed our mandatory e-learning on the 
new rules. 
We expect everyone to consider two aspects when performing their 
tasks: the hazards that could potentially cause serious harm, and the 
effectiveness of the barriers in place to avoid serious harm if something 
goes wrong. We have ongoing safety awareness programmes, and 
hold an annual global Safety Day to give employees and contractors 
time to reflect on how to prevent incidents and how to work together 
to improve performance.
In 2022, our annual Safety Day explored how we are all connected 
to the work that we do, and how our actions can create a chain of 
events that can influence the decisions and actions of others, including 
at the frontline.
We continue to learn from safety incidents. For example, in 2021, 
six contractor personnel and one government security agent lost their 
lives after their convoy came under attack on the way to the Assa 
North Project site in Nigeria. After the investigation into the incident, 
we shared information materials across Shell to raise awareness and 
encourage reflection and learning.
In 2022, we completed the construction of the Pennsylvania 
Petrochemicals Complex in the USA with more than 67 million work 
hours without fatality. During the building of a floating production 
storage and offloading vessel for the Shell-operated Penguins field 
(Shell interest 50%) in the UK North Sea, the China Offshore Oil 
Engineering Company (COOEC) achieved 16 million hours without 
fatality or serious injury.
Process safety
Process safety management is about keeping hazardous substances 
inside pipes, tanks and vessels, and ensuring that well fluids are 
contained during well construction and well intervention so that they 
do not harm people or the environment. It starts at the design and 
construction stage of projects and continues throughout the life cycle 
of facilities to ensure they are safely operated, well maintained and 
regularly inspected. 
Our global standards and operating procedures define our 
expectations for the controls and physical barriers required to reduce 
the risks of incidents. For example, offshore wells must be designed with 
at least two independent barriers in the direction of flow, in order to 
reduce the risk of an uncontrolled release of hydrocarbons. For the 
event of a loss of containment such as a spill or a leak, our standards 
require the use of independent recovery measures to stop the release 
from becoming catastrophic. We regularly inspect, test and maintain 
these barriers to ensure they meet our standards.
Working with industry stakeholders, customers and suppliers is critically 
important to achieve our process safety ambitions.
We strive to learn not only from leaks that have happened, but also 
from potential events that were prevented by our barriers, such as 
avoided leaks which might have caused significant harm to assets 
and people.
In 2022, there were no Level 1, or Level 2, well control incidents in 
Shell-operated ventures
.
Emergency response
We routinely prepare and practise our emergency response to 
potential incidents, such as a spill or a fire. This involves working closely 
with local emergency services and regulatory agencies to jointly test 
our plans and procedures. Shell requires key operating assets to test 
their emergency response preparedness every three years. In 2022, we 
held four large-scale emergency response exercises to ensure we have 
the required preparedness at assets we operate in Brazil, Nigeria, the 
Philippines and the US Gulf of Mexico.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Safety
121 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
121
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Transport safety
Transporting large numbers of people, products and equipment by 
road, rail, sea and air poses safety risks. We seek to reduce these risks 
by developing best-practice standards within Shell. We also work with 
specialist contractors, industry bodies, non-governmental organisations 
and governments to find ways of reducing transport safety risks.
Road safety
In 2022, Shell employees and contractors drove around 456 million 
kilometres on business in more than 50 countries, a decrease of around 
3% compared with 2021.
In Pakistan, a contractor colleague died during road transport activities 
under operational control of Shell. The number of severe motor vehicle 
incidents increased from nine in 2021 to 14 in 2022.
In 2022, around 40,000 Shell employees and contractors completed 
some form of in-vehicle or virtual defensive driving training.
In 2022, we installed active fatigue and distraction detection (AFDD) 
devices in around 2,400 vehicles operated by Shell or our contractors 
in countries where road transport risks are highest. By end of 2024, we 
aim to complete the installation of AFDD devices in vehicles operated 
by Shell, including both contractor and Shell-owned vehicles.
People are key to executing complex tasks and to finding solutions to problems.
Safety at sea
At the end of 2022, we managed and operated a global fleet of 
25 tankers, liquefied natural gas carriers, and the world's first liquefied 
hydrogen carrier, the Suiso Frontier.
Air safety
In 2022, for Shell-operated ventures, our owned and contracted 
aircraft flew more than 35,000 hours and safely carried more than 
266,000 Shell employees and contractors to destinations all over the 
world. In addition, remotely piloted aircraft safely completed close to 
1,000 hours of survey and inspection flights.
 
See our website shell.com for more information on transport safety.
Safety and technology
Shell has been a pioneer in the development and deployment of digital 
technologies for decades, including those that help keep people and 
our operations safe. For example, we use smart sensors, which can be 
fixed, robot-mounted or carried by personnel, and are inter-connected 
so that they can gather and share data. Sensors can scan large areas 
across an asset to help detect leaks. Data analytics can reveal trends, 
which enables real-time risk assessment and timely interventions. Data 
analytics can reveal trends, which enables real-time risk assessment 
and timely interventions.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Safety continued
122 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
122
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Contractor safety
Executives from Shell and our major contractor companies have collaborated on Shell’s contractor safety leadership (CSL) programme since 2014. 
The programme seeks to identify strategies and practical ways to improve a shared safety culture and achieve our Goal Zero ambition of no harm 
and no leaks.
We have worked with contractors on standardisation and simplification of safety procedures, and collaborated to develop a contractor safety 
leadership initiative called Declared Future. We believe these efforts have helped to align our organisations and improve frontline safety.
Our transition to the industry Life-Saving Rules also brings us closer to the standard shared by most of the main contractor companies in our 
contractor safety leadership programme which was something they had requested of us.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Safety continued
123 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Importance of contractor safety for Shell
Shell’s
strategy
Powering Progress
Underpinned by our core
values of honesty, integrity
and respect for people,
and our focus on safety.
Goal Zero
No harm. No leaks.
Contractor
safety
management
in Shell
We want every
contractor that
works for us to
go home safely
every day
62%
share of contractor
exposure hours
in Shell-operated
ventures
Majority of the
high-risk work
is performed by
our contractors
Shell supply
chain
management
In partnership
with our key
contractors
~24,000
global supplier/
contractor companies
in 2022
$41.5 billion
spent on goods
and services in
2022 globally
Shell-contractor
safety
leadership (CSL)
23
contractor
companies in
CSL programme
80m+
exposure
hours
annually
550,000+
direct employees
(total for all CSL
members)
123
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Safety performance
Regrettably, in 2022, two of our contractor colleagues in Shell-
operated ventures lost their lives in the course of their work for Shell. 
One contractor colleague in Nigeria died from injuries sustained during 
a fire incident. In Pakistan, a contractor colleague died during road 
transport activities under operational control of Shell.
On March 3, 2023, in Nigeria at the site of an illegal connection used 
for crude theft a fire incident occurred on the Rumuekpe - Nkpoku trunk 
line which was not operational at the time. There are confirmed 
fatalities and investigations are ongoing.
The Shell organisation feels these losses deeply. We are determined 
to learn from these incidents and do everything possible to prevent 
anything similar from happening again. We continue to work closely 
with our contractors to help build a strong safety culture at the frontline.
Several industry safety leadership groups confirm that serious and high-
potential incidents often have different root causes than most lower-
consequence events. To improve insights from incident investigations 
and data analysis, we changed how we report incidents. Since 2021, 
we measure the number of serious injuries and fatalities per 100 million 
working hours, instead of the Total Recordable Case Frequency, which 
measured injuries per million working hours. The Serious Injury, Illness 
and Fatality Frequency (SIF-F) allows us to focus our investigations on 
the most serious incidents. The aim is to collect and analyse relevant, 
high-quality data that can help us improve our efforts to prevent 
serious injuries and fatalities.
In 2022, the SIF-F was 1.7 injuries and illnesses per 100 million 
working hours, compared with 6.9 in 2021. 
The number of Tier 1 and 2 operational process safety events in 2022 
decreased significantly compared with 2021. There were 66 incidents 
reported during the year compared with 103 in 2021. 
For reporting on process safety, in this Report, we combine Tier 1 and 2 
events. A Tier 1 process safety event is an unplanned or uncontrolled 
release of any material from a process, including non-toxic and non-
flammable materials, with the greatest actual consequence resulting 
in harm to employees, contract staff or a neighbouring community, 
damage to equipment, or exceeding a defined threshold quantity. 
A Tier 2 process safety event is a release of lesser consequence.
As part of Shell's learner mindset approach, we investigate all serious 
incidents so we can understand the underlying causes, including 
technical, behavioural, organisational and human factors. We share 
what we learn widely, including with contractors. We implement 
mitigations at the site and in the country and business where the 
incident occurred. We seek to turn incident findings into improved 
standards or better ways of working that can be applied widely 
across similar facilities.
Additional information on our 2022 safety performance is expected 
to be published in the Shell Sustainability Report in March 2023.
Security
Our operations expose us to criminality, civil unrest, activism, terrorism, 
cyber-disruption and acts of war that could have a material adverse 
effect on our business (see "Risk factors" on page 21). We seek to 
obtain the best possible information to enable us to assess threats and 
risks. To help us understand the threats, we build strong and open 
relationships with government, law enforcement, armed forces, industry 
peers and specialist security information providers. On the basis of 
these threat assessments, we identify security risks to staff, assets 
including information technology equipment, and operations. We then 
seek to manage the risks so they are as low as reasonably practicable. 
Risk mitigation includes strengthening the security of sites, reducing our 
exposure to threats as appropriate, journey management, information 
risk management and cyber-defence operations, crisis management 
and business continuity measures. We conduct training and awareness 
campaigns for staff, and provide them with travel advice and access to 
24/7 assistance while travelling. We consistently verify the identity of 
our employees and contract staff, we control physical access to our 
sites and activities, and we document access with digital tools.
We take steps to have clear and planned responses to security 
incidents, so that we are able to react quickly and effectively
if they occur.
Shell is a member of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human 
Rights initiative. This is a multi-stakeholder initiative of governments, 
extractive sector industries and NGOs that gives guidance on how to 
respect human rights while providing security for business operations. 
Shell implements this guidance across its companies, concentrating 
on countries where the risks of working with state and private security 
forces are greatest.
The Board’s Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee (SESCo) 
has oversight of Shell’s security risk management activities. In the 
Executive Committee, accountability for security matters sits with the 
Chief Human Resources and Corporate Officer.
Strategic Report | Progress on strategy – year in review
Safety continued
124 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
124
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Section 172(1) statement
The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) 
Regulations 2018 (2018 MRR) require 
Directors to explain how they considered 
the interests of key stakeholders and the 
broader matters set out in Section 172(1) 
(a) to (f) of the Companies Act 2006 
(S172) when performing their duty to 
promote the success of the Company
under S172. 
This includes considering the interests of other stakeholders which 
may affect the long-term success of the company. This S172 statement 
explains how Shell's Directors: 
▪ have engaged with employees, suppliers, customers and others; and 
▪ have considered employee interests, the need to foster business 
relationships with suppliers, customers and others, and the effects 
of those considerations, including on the principal decisions taken 
during the financial year. 
The S172 statement focuses on matters of strategic importance to Shell, 
and the level of information disclosed is consistent with the size and 
the complexity of Shell's businesses. 
S172 Statement by Shell's Directors
After due and careful consideration of the requirements set out in 
S172, and having regard to long-term consequences and the interests 
of stakeholders in relation to Board decision-making, the Directors, 
during the financial year ending December 31, 2022, have acted in a 
way that they consider, in good faith, would be
 most likely to promote 
the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
General confirmation of directors’ duties 
Shell’s Board has a clear framework for determining the matters 
within its remit and has approved Terms of Reference for the matters 
delegated to its Committees. Certain financial and strategic thresholds 
have been set, in order to identify matters requiring Board 
consideration and approval. The Manual of Authority sets out the 
delegation and approval process across the broader business.
 
More information on Shell’s controls and procedures can be found in "Other 
regulatory and statutory information" from pages 211-219.
All Directors upon joining Shell have participated in induction 
training and are provided with ongoing guidance covering regulatory 
requirements of their role, including, but not limited to, S172.
 
More information on Directors' induction and training can be found from 
page 152.
Board decision-making is predicated on the appropriateness of 
information provided to Directors which is subject to review as part 
of the wider board evaluation process. The most recent board 
effectiveness review is detailed on page 153. In particular, board 
materials are assessed as to their suitability in relation to assisting 
and facilitating Directors' decision-making in accordance with S172.
When making decisions, each Director ensures that (s)he acts in the 
way he or she considers, in good faith, would most likely promote 
Shell's success for the benefit of its members as a whole, and in doing 
so has regard (among other matters) to the issues set out below. 
S172(1) (a) "The likely consequences of any decision
in the long term" 
The Directors understand the business and both the evolving and 
challenging environment in which we operate, including the challenges 
of continuing to navigate through the energy transition and also the 
geopolitical tensions associated with Russia, which have, amongst 
other things, resulted in Shell's withdrawal from Russian oil and gas 
activities (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on 
pages 262-264). Based on Shell’s established purpose to power 
progress together by providing more and cleaner energy solutions,
the ongoing strategy set by the Board is intended to accelerate the 
transition of our business to net-zero emissions, purposefully and 
profitably. We continue to have a strong, resilient business including 
focus on energy security, by putting customers at the centre of our 
strategy, innovating the products and solutions customers need on
our journey to net zero by 2050.
In 2022, the Board continued with its oversight of Shell’s Powering 
Progress strategy, which combined our ambitions under four goals: 
generating shareholder value, achieving net-zero emissions, powering 
lives and respecting nature. The Board focused on financial strength 
and discipline with a dynamic approach to our portfolio of assets and 
products. Our new CEO has confirmed his support for Shell's strategy 
set out in the 2021 Annual Report with further strategy updates 
expected to be provided at the next scheduled Capital Markets
Day in June 2023. See pages 6-14 for more on our Powering
Progress strategy.
The Directors recognise there are significant complexities in relation
to Board decision-making, given differing societal and stakeholder 
views about our operations and the intricacies associated with the 
evolving energy transition. Accordingly, the Directors have considered 
S172 and made their decisions in good faith relating to Shell’s strategy 
having regard to the long-term sustainable success of the Company.
S172(1) (b) "The interests of the Company’s employees"
The Directors recognise that Shell employees are fundamental and 
core to our business model and the safe delivery of our strategic 
ambitions. The success of our business depends on attracting, retaining, 
developing and motivating talented employees. The Directors consider 
and assess the implications of relevant decisions on employees and the 
wider workforce. The Directors seek to ensure that Shell remains a 
responsible employer, including with respect to pay and benefits, 
fairness (including gender pay gap reporting, see page 118), diversity 
(information on Shell's Diversity, Equity and Inclusion is detailed on 
page 117), health and safety issues, and the workplace environment. 
The Directors regularly engage with employees and the wider 
workforce (a summary of engagements is provided on pages 157-158) 
as well as consider annual employee surveys (the most recent is 
detailed on page 116).
The Directors recognise that our pensioners also remain important 
stakeholders. 
 
More information on this can be found in "Workforce engagement" 
on pages 157-158. 
S172(1) (c) "The need to foster the Company’s business 
relationships with suppliers, customers and others" 
Delivering our strategy requires strong mutually beneficial relationships 
with suppliers, customers, governments, national oil companies and 
joint-venture partners. Shell seeks to promote and apply certain general 
principles in such relationships. The Board continues to review Shell’s 
approach to suppliers, which is set out in the Shell Supplier Principles. 
In 2022, the Board reviewed steps taken with suppliers and supply 
chains to combat modern slavery and human trafficking. More detail 
on Shell's Modern Slavery Act statement is set out on page 212. The 
Strategic Report
Principal decisions and stakeholders 
125 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
125
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

businesses continually assess the priorities related to customers and 
those with whom we do business, with the Board engaging with the 
businesses on these topics, for example, within the context of business 
strategy updates and investment proposals.
The Directors also receive updates on a variety of topics that indicate 
how these stakeholders have been engaged. These updates include 
information provided by the Projects & Technology function on 
suppliers and joint-venture partners, with respect to items such as 
project updates and supplier contract management. Businesses also 
provide information, as relevant, on customers and joint-venture 
partners in relation to business strategies, projects, and investment 
or divestment proposals.
The CEO provides a comprehensive update to the Board on material 
business and external developments at each main Board meeting. 
These include: i) a report on safety performance; ii) significant 
operational updates relating to each of the business segments, 
e.g. partnerships, investments, divestments, flagship projects, 
commercial highlights and achievements; iii) the development of 
new technologies and innovation via collaborations with partners, 
suppliers and others; and iv) political or regulatory developments. 
The CEO also summarises his own external engagements and any 
changes of senior executive staff. 
S172(1) (d) "The impact of the Company’s operations 
on the community and the environment" 
This aspect continues to be integral to our strategic ambitions. The 
Board receives information on various topics to help it make decisions. 
The topics can include, for example, the Net Carbon Footprint target, 
proposals to invest or divest, and business strategy reviews. The 
information also goes into Group-level overviews, such as updates 
on safety and environment performance, reports from the Chief Ethics 
and Compliance Officer, and reports from the Chief Internal Auditor. 
In 2022, certain Board committees and Non-executive Directors 
conducted site visits of various Shell operations and overseas offices 
and held external stakeholder engagements. In contrast to 2021, 
visits were made in person with restrictions relating to the COVID-19 
pandemic being largely removed in most countries. This enabled the 
Board to maintain and strengthen the interface with businesses and 
staff, with virtual engagements additionally used when appropriate, 
making the best use of technology available.
 
More information can be found in "Understanding and engaging with our 
stakeholders" on pages 154-156, and in the reports of each Board committee.
S172(1) (e) "The desirability of the Company maintaining
a reputation for high standards of business conduct" 
Shell aims to meet the world’s growing need for more and cleaner 
energy solutions in economically, environmentally, and socially 
responsible ways. The Board periodically reviews and approves clear 
frameworks, such as The Shell General Business Principles, Shell’s Code 
of Conduct, specific Ethics and Compliance manuals, the Ethical 
Decision-Making Framework, and its Modern Slavery Statement, to 
ensure that high standards are maintained in Shell businesses and in 
Shell's business relationships. Complemented by the ways the Board is 
informed and monitors ethics and compliance with relevant governance 
standards, this helps to ensure that Board decisions and the actions 
of Shell companies both promote and maintain high standards of 
business conduct. 
S172(1) (f) "The need to act fairly as between members
of the Company" 
After weighing up all relevant factors, the Directors consider which 
course of action best enables delivery of our strategy in the long-term 
interests of the Company, taking into consideration the effect on 
stakeholders. In doing so, our Directors act fairly as between the 
Company’s members but are not required to balance the Company’s 
interests with those of other stakeholders. This can sometimes mean 
that certain stakeholder interests may not be fully aligned. 
Culture 
The Board plays an important role in establishing, assessing and 
ongoing monitoring of our desired culture and how it is embedded in 
our values, attitudes and behaviours, including in our activities and 
stakeholder relationships. The Board has established honesty, integrity 
and respect for people as Shell’s core values. The General Business 
Principles and Code of Conduct help everyone at Shell to act in line 
with these values and comply with relevant laws and regulations. The 
Shell Commitment and Policy on Health, Safety, Security, Environment 
& Social Performance applies across Shell and is designed to help 
protect people and the environment. Under the industry Life-Saving 
Rules, we have simplified and standardised our approach and adopted 
a broader risk scope that focuses on potential for harm to people, 
creating a greater sense of individual and team responsibility to 
avoid fatalities and life-changing injuries. The result is a strengthened 
foundation with an increased and deliberate focus on human 
performance, the way people work, culture, equipment, work 
systems and processes interact as a system. Our ambition remains 
unchanged: achieve Goal Zero, no harm and no leaks across 
all our operations.
To achieve our strategic goals, we need to adapt our mindset and 
behaviours as we navigate the increasing complexity in the world 
around us. At Shell we seek to have a culture that encourages 
the attitudes and behaviour that we believe will help us succeed. 
We seek to encourage:
▪ Applying a learner mindset: everyone has the ability to grow, 
learn from mistakes and successes, and speak up openly in a safe 
environment. We encourage curiosity, humility, openness, helping 
each other to make better decisions and create more value;
▪ Maximising our performance: we collaborate across boundaries 
and speak up when we see things that can be improved. We enable 
people to deliver, and we work in an integrated way with discipline, 
clear focus on priorities, and tangible outcomes in order to reach 
our full potential;
▪ Increasing trust in Shell: we aim to be a valued member of 
the communities in which we operate, and to make a positive 
contribution to society. We seek to listen carefully and with humility 
and we have a strong desire to understand, and, where possible, 
adapt to the changing needs and expectations of society, especially 
as they relate to the environment. We build strong and trusted 
relationships with customers and partners which are fundamental 
to our collective success;
▪ Living by our values and Goal Zero: we live by our values 
and do the right things with respect to ethics, safety, and the 
environment; and
▪ Inspiring and engaging: we aspire to a situation where everyone 
feels connected to what we stand for. We build trusting and effective 
teams where everyone feels ownership and has a voice in how work 
gets done. We strive to maintain a diverse and inclusive culture. 
The Board considers the Shell People Survey to be an important tool 
for measuring employee engagement, motivation, affiliation, and 
commitment to Shell. With consistently high response rates, it provides 
valuable insights into employee views. It also helps the Board 
understand how the survey's outcomes are being used to strengthen 
Shell culture and values. 
Strategic Report | Principal decisions and stakeholders
Section 172(1) statement continued
126 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
126
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Stakeholder engagement (including employee 
engagement) 
The Board recognises the important role Shell has in many societies 
and is deeply committed to public collaboration and stakeholder 
engagement. The Board strongly believes that Shell will only succeed 
by working together with customers, governments, business partners, 
investors, and other stakeholders. 
Continuing to work together with stakeholders is critical, particularly
at a time when we and society, including businesses, governments, 
and consumers, face issues as complex and challenging as climate
change, energy security and affordability.
We continue to build on our long track record of working with others, 
such as investors, industry and trade groups, universities, governments, 
non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and, in some appropriate 
instances, our competitors through our joint-venture operations or 
industry bodies. We believe that working together and sharing 
knowledge and experience with others offers us greater insight into
our business. We also appreciate our long-term relationships with
our investors and acknowledge the positive impact of ongoing 
engagement and dialogue. 
The guidance on preparing information, proposals or discussion items 
for the Board asks for these materials to include considerations of the 
views, interests, and concerns of stakeholders and how management 
addressed them. This helps to strengthen the Board’s knowledge of 
how the broader business undertakes significant levels of stakeholder 
engagement. Board minutes have also reflected key points on 
stakeholder considerations, where appropriate. The Terms of Reference 
for our Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee also include, 
within the Committee’s remit, the review and consideration of external 
stakeholder perspectives and how major issues of public concern 
that could affect Shell's reputation and licence to operate were 
or are being addressed.
The Board also engaged with certain stakeholders directly, to 
understand their views. The Board draws upon Shell’s substantial in-
house expertise by periodically receiving input from economics and 
policy experts on key political and economic themes, with some 
updates being presented to the Board each quarter.
 
More on this engagement is provided in "Understanding and engaging with our 
stakeholders" on pages 154-156.
Information on how the Directors have engaged with employees can 
be found on pages 157-158 and in the "Powering lives" section on page 
116. The tables below include examples of how Directors have 
considered the interests of Shell employees and the resulting outcomes. 
Principal decisions
In the table below, we outline some of the principal decisions made by 
the Board over the year. We explain how the Directors have engaged 
with or in relation to key stakeholder groups and how stakeholder 
interests were considered in decision-making. 
To remain concise, we have categorised our key stakeholders into 
seven groups. Where appropriate, each group is considered to include 
both current and potential stakeholders. The groups are: 
▪ investor community; 
▪ employees/workforce/pensioners;
▪ our customers;
▪ regulators/governments; 
▪ NGOs/civil society stakeholders/academia/think-tanks;
▪ communities; and
▪ suppliers/strategic partners.
Board decisions 
We define principal decisions taken by the Board as decisions taken
in 2022 that are of a strategic nature and significant to any of our key 
stakeholder groups. As outlined in the UK Financial Reporting Council 
(FRC) Guidance on the Strategic Report, we include decisions related 
to capital allocation and dividend policy. 
How were stakeholders considered 
We describe how regard was given to the likely long-term 
consequences of the decision, including how stakeholders were 
considered during the decision-making process. 
What was the outcome 
We describe which accommodations or mitigations were made, if any, 
and how Directors have considered different interests, and what factors 
they took into account. 
 
Strategic updates 
Powering Progress strategy
Shell's Powering Progress strategy was launched in 2021, and is outlined within this 
Annual Report. As part of the Board's continuing oversight of strategy, the Directors 
receive and discuss regular strategy updates including feedback from stakeholder 
engagements by management, investors, the media, climate activists and internal staff.
How stakeholders were considered
Energy Transition Progress Report
In 2021, Shell produced a report (the Shell energy transition strategy (ETS)) with the 
aim of helping investors and society obtain a better understanding of how Shell is 
addressing the risks and opportunities of the energy transition. The ETS was put to 
shareholders for approval at the 2021 Annual General Meeting (AGM) for an advisory 
vote, and the Board committed to provide an advisory vote on the progress against this 
strategy in 2022 and 2023, with the ETS itself coming back to shareholders in 2024. 
The ETS is outlined within this report on pages 83-91, as is the progress against that 
strategy. During the year the Board have been provided with updates on Shell’s energy 
transition commitments.
What was the outcome
Energy Transition Progress Report
There are differing societal views about Shell’s energy transition 
ambitions, targets and strategy and the Board recognise that 
some decisions taken today may not align with all stakeholder 
interests. The Board continues to listen, learn and adapt as it 
frames delivery against its strategy on the long-term success of 
the Company.
Feedback from the stakeholder discussions is considered during 
the drafting and formal approval stages of the energy transition 
progress report. We strive to provide clear information on Shell’s 
progress, along with the clarifications our stakeholders are 
seeking. The feedback received from when the ETS was first 
published, along with that from our progress reports will be later 
utilised as the business moves to focus on updating its ETS ahead 
of putting it to a shareholder vote in 2024. 
More information on the results of the AGM vote is provided on 
pages 145 and 154. 
Strategic Report | Principal decisions and stakeholders
Section 172(1) statement continued
127 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Stakeholder engagement (including employee 
engagement) 
The Board recognises the important role Shell has in many societies 
and is deeply committed to public collaboration and stakeholder 
engagement. The Board strongly believes that Shell will only succeed 
by working together with customers, governments, business partners, 
investors, and other stakeholders. 
Continuing to work together with stakeholders is critical, particularly
at a time when we and society, including businesses, governments, 
and consumers, face issues as complex and challenging as climate
change, energy security and affordability.
We continue to build on our long track record of working with others, 
such as investors, industry and trade groups, universities, governments, 
non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and, in some appropriate 
instances, our competitors through our joint-venture operations or 
industry bodies. We believe that working together and sharing 
knowledge and experience with others offers us greater insight into
our business. We also appreciate our long-term relationships with
our investors and acknowledge the positive impact of ongoing 
engagement and dialogue. 
The guidance on preparing information, proposals or discussion items 
for the Board asks for these materials to include considerations of the 
views, interests, and concerns of stakeholders and how management 
addressed them. This helps to strengthen the Board’s knowledge of 
how the broader business undertakes significant levels of stakeholder 
engagement. Board minutes have also reflected key points on 
stakeholder considerations, where appropriate. The Terms of Reference 
for our Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee also include, 
within the Committee’s remit, the review and consideration of external 
stakeholder perspectives and how major issues of public concern 
that could affect Shell's reputation and licence to operate were 
or are being addressed.
The Board also engaged with certain stakeholders directly, to 
understand their views. The Board draws upon Shell’s substantial in-
house expertise by periodically receiving input from economics and 
policy experts on key political and economic themes, with some 
updates being presented to the Board each quarter.
 
More on this engagement is provided in "Understanding and engaging with our 
stakeholders" on pages 154-156.
Information on how the Directors have engaged with employees can 
be found on pages 157-158 and in the "Powering lives" section on page 
116. The tables below include examples of how Directors have 
considered the interests of Shell employees and the resulting outcomes. 
Principal decisions
In the table below, we outline some of the principal decisions made by 
the Board over the year. We explain how the Directors have engaged 
with or in relation to key stakeholder groups and how stakeholder 
interests were considered in decision-making. 
To remain concise, we have categorised our key stakeholders into 
seven groups. Where appropriate, each group is considered to include 
both current and potential stakeholders. The groups are: 
▪ investor community; 
▪ employees/workforce/pensioners;
▪ our customers;
▪ regulators/governments; 
▪ NGOs/civil society stakeholders/academia/think-tanks;
▪ communities; and
▪ suppliers/strategic partners.
Board decisions 
We define principal decisions taken by the Board as decisions taken
in 2022 that are of a strategic nature and significant to any of our key 
stakeholder groups. As outlined in the UK Financial Reporting Council 
(FRC) Guidance on the Strategic Report, we include decisions related 
to capital allocation and dividend policy. 
How were stakeholders considered 
We describe how regard was given to the likely long-term 
consequences of the decision, including how stakeholders were 
considered during the decision-making process. 
What was the outcome 
We describe which accommodations or mitigations were made, if any, 
and how Directors have considered different interests, and what factors 
they took into account. 
 
Strategic updates 
Powering Progress strategy
Shell's Powering Progress strategy was launched in 2021, and is outlined within this 
Annual Report. As part of the Board's continuing oversight of strategy, the Directors 
receive and discuss regular strategy updates including feedback from stakeholder 
engagements by management, investors, the media, climate activists and internal staff.
How stakeholders were considered
Energy Transition Progress Report
In 2021, Shell produced a report (the Shell energy transition strategy (ETS)) with the 
aim of helping investors and society obtain a better understanding of how Shell is 
addressing the risks and opportunities of the energy transition. The ETS was put to 
shareholders for approval at the 2021 Annual General Meeting (AGM) for an advisory 
vote, and the Board committed to provide an advisory vote on the progress against this 
strategy in 2022 and 2023, with the ETS itself coming back to shareholders in 2024. 
The ETS is outlined within this report on pages 83-91, as is the progress against that 
strategy. During the year the Board have been provided with updates on Shell’s energy 
transition commitments.
What was the outcome
Energy Transition Progress Report
There are differing societal views about Shell’s energy transition 
ambitions, targets and strategy and the Board recognise that 
some decisions taken today may not align with all stakeholder 
interests. The Board continues to listen, learn and adapt as it 
frames delivery against its strategy on the long-term success of 
the Company.
Feedback from the stakeholder discussions is considered during 
the drafting and formal approval stages of the energy transition 
progress report. We strive to provide clear information on Shell’s 
progress, along with the clarifications our stakeholders are 
seeking. The feedback received from when the ETS was first 
published, along with that from our progress reports will be later 
utilised as the business moves to focus on updating its ETS ahead 
of putting it to a shareholder vote in 2024. 
More information on the results of the AGM vote is provided on 
pages 145 and 154. 
Strategic Report | Principal decisions and stakeholders
Section 172(1) statement continued
127 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
127
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Strategic updates
At the 2022 AGM, almost 80% of shareholders that voted supported our progress in this 
strategy, and shareholders will be asked again with the same resolution being put to the 
2023 AGM. 
Both before and after the 2022 AGM, the Chair, CEO and some members of the Executive 
Committee engaged with key stakeholders to understand their views and opinions on Shell’s 
progress on its ETS. Differing views were shared by these groups and were later shared with 
the Board. 
In 2024, our ETS will come back to shareholders for an advisory vote and we will be 
engaging on this strategy through the latter part of 2023.
Board Strategy Days
In June 2022, the Board held in-person strategy meetings over the course of three days in 
Singapore, providing for a number of engaging and interactive events with both internal 
and external stakeholders. A summary of the event is on page 150. The key areas of focus 
related to accelerating the energy transition.
Staff engagements
Virtual and in-person staff engagements were held with Directors which enabled them to 
speak directly with staff on themes including the benefits of working in Upstream. For further 
information on the engagement with our workforce see "Board activities" and "Workforce 
engagement" on pages 150-151 and pages 157-158. 
Board Strategy Days
Through multiple engagements with stakeholders the Board:
▪
considered geopolitical contexts on accelerating the energy 
transition and engaged with Shell leaders from across the 
Asian region;
▪ considered feedback from a cross-section of Shell's staff on the 
energy transition;
▪ discussed core elements of the Powering Progress strategy with 
key customers, government officials, and other stakeholders in 
the region.
The stakeholder engagements were considered as part of driving 
Shell's energy transition in Asia, and framing discussions on both 
Shell's Operating Plan and Financial Framework.
Financial strength, cash allocation including shareholder distributions
The Board considered cash flow, the macro environment and business performance in 2022 
compared with 2021. The Board also considered management’s view of the outlook for the 
Group’s performance, and reviewed the Financial Framework with specific focus on 
shareholder distributions. Directors approved several proposals with the aim of delivering 
value to shareholders and increasing shareholder distributions through a combination of 
progressive dividends and share buybacks. 
How stakeholders were considered
A number of considerations underpinned each proposal, with proposals discussed and 
reviewed at certain points throughout the year. These considerations took account of the 
macro environment, robust business performance and outlook, the strength of the balance 
sheet, capital discipline, feedback from advisers and feedback from other stakeholders. 
The Financial Framework was reviewed as part of the Board’s strategy event held in June 
2022 in Singapore. 
What was the outcome
In relation to the decisions to increase distributions to 
shareholders, the Board and management considered the views 
of stakeholders, the strength of the Company’s balance sheet and 
the need to continue to invest for the future of energy. The form 
and timing for distributing funds to shareholders were announced 
throughout 2022. 
Subject to Board approval, Shell aims to grow the dividend 
per share by around 4% every year, and Shell will target the 
distribution of a minimum of 20% and, subject to Board 
approval, and prevailing market conditions, potentially more 
than 30% of its cash flow from operations to shareholders.
Approval of Shell’s detailed Operating Plan 2023-2025 (OP22)
The approval of OP22 followed an in-depth review by the Board of proposals on capital 
allocation, capital investment outlook, competitive outlook, operating expenses, return 
on average capital employed and shareholder distributions. This included reviews in 
numerous Board meetings leading up to the December 2022 Board meeting in which 
OP22 was approved.
How stakeholders were considered
OP22 discussions included a full review against Shell’s Powering Progress strategy, 
the macroeconomic environment, and the financial strength of the organisation. The 
Directors and Executive Committee balanced the priorities in the financial framework 
including capital and operating expenditure commitments towards the energy 
transition alongside increased shareholder distributions, maintaining balance sheet 
strength, aspired credit ratings and greenhouse gas target tracking. The plan was 
discussed extensively and reviewed thoroughly. Responses from investors and 
discussions with equity and debt market analysts were also presented to the Board 
for consideration. The Board asked questions of management on the flexibility of 
OP22 to be as agile as feasible in the event of various energy transition scenarios.
What was the outcome
Following extensive review and discussion, the overall outcome 
of this decision was an Operating Plan that the Board believes 
is robust against various scenarios and features strong 
optionality if needed. In particular, the Board assured itself that, 
as decisions are taken by the Board over the Plan period, OP22 
flexibly demonstrates pathways to enable delivery of Shell’s 
absolute Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and GHG intensity 
targets by 2030.
While stakeholder opinions differ on Shell’s approach, OP22 is 
based on society’s demand for products and services. OP22 also 
supports Shell in maintaining a reputation for high standards on 
business conduct and health, safety, security, and environment 
issues. It maintained the approach to employee remuneration and 
benefits to pensioners. OP22 also seeks to reward our investors 
with returns and maintain the long-term financial strength of the 
Company to invest in more and cleaner forms of energy and meet 
the current and future needs of society.
Strategic Report | Principal decisions and stakeholders
Section 172(1) statement continued
128 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
128
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Over the course of the year, the Board considered and approved new opportunities and 
projects and proposed divestments or closures. The Board also considered and approved 
Shell's exit from Russia, with more details in this section relating to particular divestments 
in Russia.
How stakeholders were considered
The Board considered the impact of decisions related to new business opportunities and 
divesting from existing opportunities in the context of sustainability, supply, regulations, 
and carbon intensity. Critically, the Board reviewed the various proposals’ alignment with 
Shell’s strategy. Particular focus was given to potential benefits of certain divestments, 
including their potential to: create returns for shareholders; further strengthen the balance 
sheet; de-risk future cash flow; and avoid significant additional capital investment. As part 
of the discussions, the Board considered the strategic drivers for the intended divestments, 
including the Scope 1 emissions of each asset, anticipated regulatory changes expected 
to lead to value erosion, and any value opportunities afforded by the macro environment. 
As part of each proposal, the respective business unit will undertake effective due 
diligence on prospective purchasers from a financial, reputational as well as operating 
philosophy standpoint to ensure future obligations are met or suitable mitigating 
measures are in place to protect Shell and its people.
Within each divestment proposal, the Board considered if the Company was being a 
responsible seller of its assets and if the purchasers have the capability to manage our 
assets/people appropriately. Staff matters are explicitly considered during negotiations 
and the due diligence process for acquisitions and divestments. Comprehensive 
engagement plans are developed as appropriate in parallel to the negotiations.
As part of Shell's intercompany approval process, the following investments / 
divestments were discussed and supported by the Board.
Purchase of renewables platform in India
The acquisition of Sprng Energy group and the associated solar and wind assets triples 
Shell's present renewables capacity in operation and helps deliver on Shell's Powering 
Progress strategy.
Purchase of fuel and convenience retail sites in the USA
The Landmark group of companies.
Production-sharing contract in Brazil
This acquisition consisted of a 25% stake of the Atapu field, Brazil, facilitating the 
delivery of Shell's Powering Progress strategy.
Investment in Jackdaw gas field in the UK North Sea
The investment in Jackdaw gas field in the UK North Sea, following regulatory approval.
Investment in Rosmari-Marjoram fields in Malaysia
The development of the Rosmari-Marjoram gas project, together with PETRONAS 
Carigali Sdn Bhd (20%).
Sale of interest in Aera Energy in the USA
The divestment of Shell's interest in In Aera Energy LLC.
What was the outcome
Purchase of renewables platform in India
This acquisition was considered by the Board as an important 
part of Shell's Powering Progress strategy to develop an 
integrated power business, which will help Shell reach its target 
of becoming a profitable net-zero emissions energy business by 
2050 to the benefit of all our key stakeholders.
Purchase of fuel and convenience retail sites 
in the USA
The Board considers that this acquisition advances Shell's 
Powering Progress strategy in three ways: by growing its retail 
footprint in a core market, by providing opportunities to offer 
customers expanded fuelling options (including electric vehicle 
charging, hydrogen, biofuels and lower-carbon premium fuels) 
and by allowing for the growth of non-fuel sales through an 
enhanced convenience offering.
Production-sharing contract in Brazil
The Board considers this acquisition supports our Powering 
Progress strategy to deliver the stable, secure energy resources 
the world needs today while investing in the energy of the future. 
Shell’s Powering Progress strategy includes increasing investment 
in lower-carbon energy solutions, while continuing to pursue the 
most resilient, competitive, and highest-return Upstream 
investments to sustain material cash delivery into the 2030s, to 
support our dividend and fund Shell's transformation.
Investment in Jackdaw gas field in the UK North Sea
Jackdaw is part of Shell UK’s broader intent to invest £20-£25 
billion in the UK energy system in the next decade, subject to 
Board approval and stable fiscal policy, with the aim of 
investing 75% in the development of low- and zero-carbon 
products and services. Hundreds of millions of pounds are 
expected to be spent in the UK supply chain during Jackdaw’s 
construction, which is a significant boost to companies, jobs 
and the prosperity of communities.
The Board considers that projects like Jackdaw will help ensure 
that the overall decline in UK North Sea production is gradual 
rather than too steep, matching a gradual drop in hydrocarbon 
demand as the energy transition takes place. Gas from the 
Jackdaw field will come ashore at St Fergus, where Shell is 
involved in the development of the Acorn Carbon Capture and 
Storage project, which could sequester carbon dioxide (CO
2) 
from industrial clusters in Scotland, the UK and northern Europe. 
The Acorn project could also reform natural gas into low-carbon 
hydrogen, by capturing and storing the CO
2.
Investment in Rosmari-Marjoram fields in Malaysia
The Board considers that this investment will help to deliver a 
secure and reliable supply of energy, responsibly and efficiently. 
This demonstrates our Powering Progress strategy - powering 
lives, generating value, and reducing emissions by using 
renewable energy to power Rosmari-Marjoram.
Sale of interest in Aera Energy in the USA
This Board considers that this divestment supports Shell's 
strategy to create a resilient and competitive Upstream 
portfolio by focusing on positions with high growth potential 
and a strong integrated value chain.
Investing in new business, acquisitions and divestments, and closures 
Strategic Report | Principal decisions and stakeholders
Section 172(1) statement continued
129 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
129
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Exiting equity partnerships held with Gazprom entities in Russia
In February 2022, the Board announced its intention to exit its joint ventures with Gazprom 
and related entities, including its 27.5% stake in the Sakhalin-II liquefied natural gas facility, 
its 50 percent stake in the Salym Petroleum Development; and also the Gydan Energy 
venture. In addition, the Board also announced its intention to end its involvement in the 
Nord Stream 2 pipeline project.
Sale of retail and lubricants business in Russia
On March 8, 2022, Shell announced its intent to withdraw from its involvement in all 
Russian hydrocarbons, including crude oil, petroleum products, gas and liquefied natural 
gas (LNG) in a phased manner. Following this announcement, the Board approved, as 
part of our internal approval process, the sale of Shell Neft LLC, Shell’s retail stations and 
lubricants business in Russia, to PJSC LUKOIL. The sale included 411 retail stations, mainly 
located in the Central and Northwestern regions of Russia, and the Torzhok lubricants 
blending plant, around 200 kilometres north-west of Moscow.
In relation to Russian divestments, the Board received regular updates and engaged with 
both internal and external stakeholders throughout the year to ensure a controlled and 
measured exit from Russia.
Sale of interest in Shell Philippines Exploration B.V (SPEX) to Malampaya 
Energy XP Pte Ltd (MEXP)
Following consent from the joint venture partners and regulatory approval, Shell sold its 
100% shareholding in Shell Philippines Exploration B.V.
What was the outcome
Exiting equity partnerships held with Gazprom 
entities in Russia
The divestments were considered by the Board with an immediate 
focus on the safety, security and well-being of Shell personnel. The 
Board considered discussions with governments around the world, 
working through the detailed business implications, including the 
importance of secure energy supplies to Europe and other 
markets, in compliance with relevant sanctions.
At the end of 2021, Shell had around $3 billion in non-current 
assets in these ventures in Russia. The Board expected that the 
decision to start the process of exiting joint ventures with 
Gazprom and related entities would impact the book value of 
Shell’s Russia assets and lead to impairments. Subsequently, 
these impairments were reflected in the first quarter 2022 
results statement.
Further to the divestments, Shell’s Powering Progress strategy and 
financial framework remain unchanged, with the Board reiterating 
Shell's progressive dividend policy and intent to distribute 20-30% 
of CFFO to shareholders in the form of dividends and share 
buybacks while targeting a strong balance sheet with long-term 
AA credit metrics. 
Sale of retail and lubricants business in Russia
The Board prioritised the well-being of Shell employees, with 
more than 350 people being transferred to the new owner 
of the business. The agreement with LUKOIL follows Shell’s 
announcement in early March of its intention to withdraw 
from all Russian hydrocarbons in a phased manner, with all 
divestments being carried out in full compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Sale of interest in Shell Philippines Exploration B.V. 
(SPEX) to Malampaya Energy XP Pte Ltd (MEXP)
The Board considers the Philippines as an important country 
for Shell after over a century of successful operations Shell 
will continue to pursue opportunities in the Philippines where 
it can leverage its global expertise in line with its Powering 
Progress strategy. 
Investing in new business, acquisitions and divestments, and closures 
Strategic Report | Principal decisions and stakeholders
Section 172(1) statement continued
130 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
130
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Building Europe's largest renewable hydrogen plant in the Netherlands
Shareholder approval to build Holland Hydrogen I, which will be Europe’s largest 
renewable hydrogen plant once operational from 2025.
Investment in Crux project in Western Australia
Shareholder approval for the development of the Crux natural gas field, off the coast of 
Western Australia. Crux will provide further supplies of natural gas to the existing Prelude 
floating liquefied natural gas (FLNG) facility.
Partnering in the North Field South LNG project in Qatar
Shareholder approval for participation in the next wave of Qatar’s LNG expansions – 
the North Field South project (NFS). Shell obtains a 9.375% participating interest in the 
16-Mtpa NFS project, out of a total 25% interest available for international partners.
Investment in offshore wind farm at Hollandse Kust (west) 
in the Netherlands 
Shareholder approval to build and operate a joint-venture offshore wind farm with a 
capacity of 750 MW to be completed in 2026.
Shell acquired renewable natural gas producer Nature Energy
Shareholder approval for the acquisition of 100% shareholding of Nature Energy Biogas 
A/S (Nature Energy) with the acquisition completing in February 2023. The acquisition 
will be absorbed within Shell’s current capital range, which remains unchanged.
What was the outcome
Europe's largest renewable hydrogen plant 
in the Netherlands
The Board considers that this investment demonstrates how new 
energy solutions can work together to meet society’s need for 
cleaner energy. This investment additionally contributes to Shell’s 
efforts and commitment to become a net-zero emissions business 
by 2050 with renewable hydrogen playing a pivotal role in the 
energy system of the future and this project being an important 
step in helping hydrogen fulfil that potential.
Investment in Crux project in Western Australia
This project is considered by the Board to be an important part 
of Shell’s integrated gas portfolio. Natural gas from Crux will 
play a key role in helping Asian customers move from coal to 
gas as a cleaner-burning fuel. The project will help Shell to meet 
the increasing demand for liquefied natural gas (LNG) as the 
energy market transitions to a lower carbon future.
The project will also boost Shell’s customers’ security of 
supply, which is becoming a significant consideration for 
global consumers.
Developing the Crux project reinforces Shell’s commitment to 
Australia, including boosting the regional economy, creating 
jobs and providing training opportunities.
Partnering in the North Field South LNG project
The Board considers that LNG has a key role in ensuring energy 
system reliability and this investment will support the energy 
transition and energy security.
Investment in offshore wind farm at Hollandse Kust 
(west) in the Netherlands 
The Board considers that this investment will grow Shell's 
offshore wind portfolio while making a positive contribution to 
biodiversity. This project accelerates the large-scale wider roll-
out of offshore wind and fits well with Shell's Powering Progress 
strategy to deliver more and cleaner energy to our customers, 
at home, on the road and at work.
Shell to acquire renewable natural gas producer 
Nature Energy
The Board considers that this acquisition fits with the Powering 
Progress strategy to accelerate its energy transition and supports 
Shell’s ambition to profitably grow its low-carbon offerings to 
customers across multiple sectors.
Investing in new business, acquisitions and divestments, and closures 
Strategic Report signed on behalf of the Board 
 /s/ Caroline J. M. Omloo
Caroline J. M. Omloo
Company Secretary 
March 8, 2023 
Strategic Report | Principal decisions and stakeholders
Section 172(1) statement continued
131 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
131
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Governance
Directors’ Report
133 The Board of Shell plc
142 Senior management
144 Introduction from the Chair
147 Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
148 Governance framework
150 Board activities 
153 Board evaluation
154 Understanding and engaging 
with our stakeholders 
157 Workforce engagement
159 Nomination and Succession Committee
163 Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee
165 Audit Committee Report
178 Directors’ Remuneration Report
183 Annual Report on Remuneration
203 Directors’ Remuneration Policy
211 Other regulatory and statutory information
Governance
132 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
132
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Career
Sir Andrew Mackenzie was appointed Chair of the Board of Shell plc with effect from May 18, 2021. 
Prior to joining Shell, Sir Andrew joined BHP in 2008, and served as Group CEO from 2013 to 2019, 
during which time he simplified and strengthened the business. He also made BHP the first miner to 
pledge to tackle emissions caused when customers use its products.
From 2004 to 2007 at Rio Tinto, he was Head of Industrial Minerals, then Head of Industrial Minerals 
and Diamonds. Prior to this, Sir Andrew spent 22 years with BP, joining in 1982 in research and 
development, followed by international operations and technology roles across most business streams 
and functions – principally in exploration and production, and petrochemicals, including as Chief 
Reservoir Engineer and Chief Technology Officer. Latterly he was Group Vice President for Chemicals 
in the Americas, then Olefins and Polymers globally.
From 2005 to 2013 Sir Andrew served as a Non-executive Director of Centrica. He has also served 
on many not-for-profit boards, including public policy think-tanks in the UK and Australia. He was 
knighted in 2020 for services to business, science, technology and UK-Australia relations.
Relevant skills and experience
Sir Andrew is a highly experienced leader who has managed major international FTSE 100 
businesses, and has more than 30 years’ experience in the oil and gas, petrochemicals and 
minerals industries. Following early academic distinction, Sir Andrew made important contributions 
to geochemistry, including groundbreaking methods for oil exploration and recovery. He was 
recognised as "one of the world’s most influential earth scientists" and made a Fellow of the Royal 
Society in 2014.
Having lived and worked on five continents, Sir Andrew has applied his deep understanding of 
the energy business and geopolitical outlook to create public-private partnerships and advise 
governments around the world. As an earth scientist, Sir Andrew has consistently pursued 
sustainable action on climate change in the interests of access to affordable energy and global 
development. Sir Andrew has brought the wealth of his experience and insights to Shell, where 
his expertise is helping Shell navigate the energy transition. Sir Andrew is also a committed 
champion of gender balance, the rights of Indigenous Peoples, and of the power of large 
companies to support social change – all of which align closely with Shell’s purpose, strategy 
and values.
In June 2021, Sir Andrew was appointed the chair of UK Research and Innovation. Sir Andrew has 
been tasked with driving forward the government's ambitious research and innovation agenda.
Sir Andrew Mackenzie
Chair
Tenure
Chair - One year and nine months
(appointed May 18, 2021) 
On Board - Two years and five months
(appointed October 1, 2020)
Board committee membership
Chair of the Nomination and Succession Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS); Chair of UK 
Research and Innovation (UKRI)
Age  Nationality
66  British
Career
Euleen Goh is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, a 
Fellow of the Singapore Institute of Chartered Accountants, and has professional qualifications 
in banking and taxation. Euleen has held various senior management positions within Standard 
Chartered Bank and was Chief Executive Officer of Standard Chartered Bank, Singapore, from 
2001 until 2006. She is also a Fellow of the Singapore Institute of Directors.
She has also held non-executive appointments on various boards including Aviva plc, MediaCorp 
Pte Ltd, Singapore Airlines Ltd, Singapore Exchange Ltd, Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia 
Berhad, Standard Chartered Bank Thai plc, CapitaLand Ltd, Temasek Trustees Pte Ltd, DBS Bank 
Ltd and DBS Group Holdings Ltd. She was previously Non-executive Chair of the Singapore 
International Foundation, and Chair of International Enterprise Singapore and the Accounting 
Standards Council, Singapore. 
Relevant skills and experience
Euleen’s current roles as chair of the board of directors of various international organisations 
provide significant experience in the area of strategy development and international 
businesses. She is highly regarded both externally and within Shell as a champion of diversity. 
She consistently, but constructively challenges the Board and management to continue to 
progress in this area. 
Based in Singapore and having been Chair of the Risk Committee of the largest bank in South-east 
Asia, Euleen is close to key emerging/growth markets for our business. Euleen’s risk management 
expertise has elevated the Board’s deep deliberations around risk governance, and her voice is 
regularly heard on discussions regarding appropriate risk appetite. Her extensive travel around 
the world through her various executive and non-executive roles has equipped her with broad 
geopolitical insight and significant knowledge of operating in the Asian markets.
Euleen uses her financial acumen and advocacy for diversity to pose probing and insightful 
questions, both in and beyond the boardroom. This contributes to well-rounded, incisive and 
inclusive Board discussions. 
Euleen Goh
Deputy Chair and Senior Independent 
Director
Tenure
Eight years and six months (appointed September 1, 
2014). Euleen was appointed Deputy Chair and 
Senior Independent Director on May 20, 2020. 
On February 1, 2023, the Board announced that 
Euleen would not be seeking re-election at the 2023 
AGM, and would step down from the Board of Shell 
plc, having reached a tenure of almost nine years.
Board committee membership
Member of the Nomination and Succession 
Committee and member of the Remuneration 
Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Chair of SATS Ltd; Trustee of the Singapore Institute 
of International Affairs Endowment Fund; Chair of 
the Singapore Institute of Management Pte Ltd; and 
Non-executive Director of Singapore Health 
Services Pte Ltd, both of which are not-for-profit 
organisations; Member of the Singapore Public 
Service Commission
Age  Nationality
67  Singaporean
Governance
The Board of Shell plc
133 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
133
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Career
Wael Sawan was appointed CEO at the start of 2023. He was previously Shell's Director of 
Integrated Gas, and Renewables and Energy Solutions, and has been a member of the Executive 
Committee since 2019, when he was appointed Upstream Director. Wael joined Shell in 1997.
Prior to being appointed Upstream Director, he was Executive Vice President of Deep Water, driving 
its transformation into a leading business for Shell, and Managing Director and Chairman of Shell 
Qatar, where he oversaw Shell’s business in Qatar, including its liquefied natural gas (LNG) and 
gas-to-liquids (GTL) divisions.
Relevant skills and experience
Wael holds an MEng from McGill University in Montreal and an MBA from Harvard Business 
School. During his Shell career, spanning more than 25 years, he has worked in Europe, Africa, 
Asia and the Americas, and has held roles across all of Shell's businesses. He has led several major 
commercial transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and divestments as well as New Business 
Development projects.
His track record of commercial, operational and transformational success reflects not only his 
broad, deep experience and understanding of Shell and the energy sector, but also his strategic 
clarity. He combines these qualities with a passion for people. He has been a trustee of Shell 
Foundation since 2019.
Wael Sawan
Chief Executive Officer
Tenure
Two months (appointed January 1, 2023) 
Board committee membership
N/A
Outside interests/commitments
No external appointments
Age  Nationality
48  Lebanese and Canadian 
Career
Sinead Gorman joined Shell in 1999 and has held key leadership roles in Finance. She started her 
Shell career in the Shell International Trading and Shipping Company (STASCO) based in London, 
UK, and then moved to the Coral Energy joint venture, in Houston, Texas, USA. She worked in 
Mergers and Acquisitions and Treasury, based in the Netherlands, before moving back to Houston 
as Vice President Finance for Shales.
In recent years, Sinead has held the position of Executive Vice President (EVP) Finance for 
Projects & Technology, and Integrated Gas and New Energies. Most recently, she was the EVP 
Finance for Upstream.
Sinead has an MEng in Engineering, Economics and Management from the University of Oxford, 
and an MSc in Finance from London Business School. 
Relevant skills and experience
Sinead has more than two decades' experience of working for Shell. She has built a deep 
understanding of finance across the industry, spanning a wide range of businesses, and possesses 
a breadth of experience in trading, new business development and capital projects. 
Sinead has held regional and global finance leadership roles across Europe and the USA, and 
latterly, in Shell’s Upstream, Integrated Gas and Renewables and Energy Solutions businesses, 
and in Projects & Technology and Corporate. 
Highly regarded for her commercial abilities and external focus, Sinead has a strong track record 
in cost leadership, principle-based decision making, detailed capital stewardship and paying close 
attention to the performance of the bottom line.
Sinead Gorman
Chief Financial Officer
Tenure
11 months (appointed April 1, 2022)
Board committee membership
N/A
Outside interests/commitments
No external appointments
Age  Nationality
45  British
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued
134 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
134
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Career
Dick Boer was President and Chief Executive Officer of Ahold Delhaize from 2016 to 2018. Prior to 
the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, he served as President and CEO of Royal Ahold from 2011 
to 2016. From 2006 to 2011 he was a member of the Executive Board of Ahold and served as Chief 
Operating Officer of Ahold Europe from 2006 to 2011.
Dick joined Ahold in 1998 as CEO of Ahold Czech Republic and was appointed President and CEO 
of Albert Heijn in 2000. In 2003, he also became President and CEO of Ahold’s Dutch businesses. 
Prior to joining Ahold, Dick spent more than 17 years in various retail positions, for SHV Holdings N.V. 
in the Netherlands and abroad, and for Unigro N.V.
Relevant skills and experience 
Dick is a highly regarded, retired chief executive, who has a deep understanding of brands and 
consumers, and extensive knowledge of the US and European markets, from his time leading one of 
the world’s largest food retail groups. He brings a career’s worth of experience at the forefront of 
retailing and customer service, which extended in more recent years to e-commerce and the digital 
arena. This experience is most timely as Shell focuses on the growth of our marketing activities and 
increasing consumer choices in energy products. 
Dick is a balanced leader with sound business judgement and a proven track record in strategic 
delivery, evidenced by the combination of Ahold and Delhaize. He also has a passion for 
sustainability and is well aware of the importance of the various stakeholder interests in this area. 
Dick Boer
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
Two years and nine months
(appointed May 20, 2020).
On February 1, 2023, the Board announced that 
Dick would be appointed Deputy Chair and 
Senior Independent Director from the conclusion 
of the 2023 AGM.
Board committee membership
Member of the Audit Committee and member of the 
Nomination and Succession Committee. Dick will 
also become a member of the Remuneration 
Committee from the conclusion of the 2023 AGM.
Outside interests/commitments
Non-executive Director of Nestlé, and SHV 
Holdings; Chair of the Supervisory Board of Royal 
Concertgebouw; Chair of Rijksmuseum Fonds and 
Chair of the Supervisory Board of Just Eat 
Takeaway.com
Age  Nationality
65  Dutch
Career
Neil Carson is a former FTSE 100 chief executive. After completing an engineering degree, Neil joined 
Johnson Matthey in 1980 where he held several senior management positions in the UK and the USA, 
before being appointed Chief Executive Officer in 2004. Since retiring from Johnson Matthey in 2014, 
Neil has focused his time on his non-executive roles. He was Chair of TT Electronics plc from 2015 until 
May 2020. 
Relevant skills and experience 
Neil is highly experienced, and has a broad industrial outlook and a thorough commercial approach 
combined with a practical perspective on businesses. He brings a track record of strong operational 
exposure, familiarity with capital-intensive business and a first-class international perspective on 
driving value in complex environments. Neil was awarded an OBE for services to the chemical 
industry in 2016. 
Neil uses his current and past experience in non-executive positions to bring fresh insight and industry 
understanding to Board discussions. He has also provided valuable insight based on his former 
executive position and operational experience. Neil was appointed Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee in May 2020.
Neil Carson OBE 
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure 
Three years and nine months
(appointed June 1, 2019)
Board committee membership 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee and member 
of the Safety, Environment and Sustainability 
Committee 
Outside interests/commitments
Non-executive Chair of Oxford Instruments plc
Age  Nationality
65  British
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued
135 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
135
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Career
Ann Godbehere started her career with Sun Life of Canada in 1976 in Montreal, Canada. She joined 
M&G Group in 1981, where she served as Senior Vice President and Controller for both life and 
health, and property and casualty businesses throughout North America. She joined Swiss Re in 1996, 
after it acquired the M&G Group, and served as Chief Financial Officer from 2003 to 2007. From 
2008 to 2009, she was interim Chief Financial Officer and an Executive Director of Northern Rock 
bank in the initial period following its nationalisation. 
Ann has also held several Non-executive Director positions at Prudential plc, British American 
Tobacco plc, UBS AG, and UBS Group AG. Ann served as a Non-executive Director of Rio Tinto 
plc and Rio Tinto Limited until May 2019, and she was also Senior Independent Director of Rio 
Tinto plc. In January 2021, Ann joined the Board of the newly formed Stellantis N.V., and she 
chairs its Audit Committee. 
Relevant skills and experience
Ann is a former CFO, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Professional Accountants, and has more 
than 25 years of experience in the financial services sector. She has worked her entire career in 
international business and has lived in or served on boards in nine countries. Ann makes significant 
contributions and adds exceptional value by bringing both her extensive experience and a global 
perspective to Board discussions. 
Ann's long and varied international business career powered by her financial acumen is reflected in 
the insights and constructive challenges she brings to the boardroom. As Audit Committee Chair, Ann 
leverages her background to ensure robust discussions are consistently held as the Audit Committee 
delivers its remit.
Ann Godbehere
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
Four years and nine months
(appointed May 23, 2018)
Board committee membership
Chair of the Audit Committee and member of the 
Nomination and Succession Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Non-executive Director and Audit Committee Chair 
of Stellantis; Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Professional Accountants and a Fellow of the 
Certified General Accountants Association of 
Canada.
Age  Nationality
67  Canadian and British 
Career
Jane Holl Lute was President and Chief Executive Officer of the North American operations of SICPA 
security inks from 2017 to 2021, when she assumed the role of Non-executive Strategic Director. From 
2018 to 2021, Jane was a Non-executive Director of Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings Inc. In 2013 Jane 
established and led the Council on CyberSecurity, an independent, expert not-for-profit organisation 
with a global scope, committed to the security of an open internet. From 2015 to 2016, Jane held the 
role of Chief Executive Officer of the Center for Internet Security, an independent not-for-profit 
organisation that works to improve cyber security worldwide.
Before this, from 2009 to 2013 Jane served as Deputy Secretary of the US Department of Homeland 
Security, functioning as the Chief Operating Officer for the third-largest US Federal department. From 
2003 to 2009 she held various roles at the United Nations, including Acting Under-Secretary and 
Assistant Secretary-General for Peacekeeping, Field Support and Peacebuilding. She also served as 
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the United Nations Foundation and Better 
World Fund. In recent years, Jane has returned to working with the United Nations, serving as a 
Special Adviser to the Secretary-General. 
Jane started her career in the US Army in 1978, serving in Berlin during the Cold War, on the US 
Central Command Staff during Operation Desert Storm, and on the National Security Council Staff 
under Presidents George H.W. Bush and William J. Clinton. After retiring from the Army in 1994, 
she joined the Carnegie Corporation as an Executive Director of its Commission on Preventing 
Deadly Conflict. 
Relevant skills and experience
Jane is a proven and effective leader, who has held significant leadership roles in public service, 
the military and the private sector. She brings a wealth of expertise in matters of public policy, 
cyber security and risk management to our Board. She has also made significant contributions to 
strategic discussions and overseeing the day-to-day business and management of a significant 
public security department. 
Jane is an experienced board director, having served on the boards of large-market-capitalisation 
companies since 2016. These appointments have provided her with wide experience and given her 
business perspectives across different sectors and geographical regions. She has also served on 
various committees including those which focus on audit, environmental and sustainability, nomination 
and governance issues. 
Jane Holl Lute
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
One year and nine months
(appointed May 19, 2021)
Board committee membership
Member of the Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee. Jane will become a 
member of the Remuneration Committee with effect 
from the close of the 2023 AGM.
Outside interests/commitments
Non-executive Director of Marsh & McLennen and 
the Union Pacific Corporation; Strategic Director of 
Sicpa Securink Corp.
Age  Nationality
66  US Citizen
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued
136 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
136
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Career
Catherine Hughes was Executive Vice President International at Nexen Inc. from January 2012 
until her retirement in April 2013, where she was responsible for all oil and gas activities including 
exploration, production, development and project activities outside Canada. She joined Nexen 
in 2009 as Vice President Operational Services, Technology and Human Resources. 
Prior to joining Nexen Inc., she was Vice President Oil Sands at Husky Oil from 2007 to 2009 and 
Vice President Exploration & Production Services, from 2005 to 2007. She started her career with 
Schlumberger in 1986 and held key positions in various countries, including France, Italy, Nigeria, 
the UK and the USA, and was President of Schlumberger Canada Ltd for five years. 
Catherine has also held several Non-executive Director positions at SNC-Lavalin Group Inc, Statoil 
ASA and Precision Drilling Inc.
Relevant skills and experience
Catherine contributes through her knowledge of industry and the ease with which she engages with 
other Directors and managers in the boardroom. With over 30 years of oil and gas sector experience, 
she brings a geopolitical outlook and deep understanding of the industry. An engineer by training, 
she has also spent a significant part of her career working in senior human resources roles. The Board 
highly regards her perspectives on our industry and our most important asset, our people. 
Catherine has a strong track record of executing operational discipline with a focus on performance 
metrics and a continual drive for excellence. Her knowledge of the technology underpinning oil and 
gas operations, logistics, procurement and supply chains benefits the Board greatly as it considers 
various projects and investment or divestment proposals. 
She also uses her industry knowledge – combined with her commitment to the highest standards 
of corporate governance and safety, ethics and compliance – in her role as Chair of our Safety, 
Environment and Sustainability Committee, while using her human resources experience in her 
membership of the Remuneration Committee. 
Catherine J. Hughes
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
Five years and nine months
(appointed June 1, 2017)
Board committee membership
Chair of the Safety, Environment and Sustainability 
Committee and member of the Remuneration 
Committee. Catherine will become a member of the 
Audit Committee from the conclusion of the 2023 
AGM, and stand down from the Remuneration 
Committee on the same date.
Outside interests/commitments
Non-executive Director of Valaris Limited 
Age  Nationality
60  Canadian and French
Career
Martina Hund-Mejean was Chief Financial Officer of Mastercard Inc. from 2007 to 2019. 
From 2002 to 2007 she was Senior Vice President, Corporate Treasurer at Tyco International 
Ltd. and from 2000 to 2002 she was Senior Vice President, Treasurer at Lucent Technologies. 
Prior to this, Martina spent 12 years with General Motors, undertaking a number of senior roles 
within their finance operations.
Relevant skills and experience
Originally from Germany, Martina has spent more than 30 years in the USA and is an experienced 
global executive. Her financial and operational leadership of technology-focused companies is 
extremely relevant as Shell explores new technology-enabled business models. Martina also brings 
diverse sector experience to the Board, most recently from operating at a large global organisation 
in the highly regulated finance industry.
Martina is known for her straightforward and direct approach. She maintains the highest standards 
of leadership, strategic thinking and financial stewardship. She also has a strong track record as a 
mentor and in promoting diversity.
Martina's deep financial knowledge and unique perspective also enable her to make robust, 
demanding and constructive challenges to our investment considerations to help ensure that our 
projects are aligned with our strategic intent.
Martina Hund-Mejean
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
Two years and nine months
(appointed May 20, 2020)
On February 1, 2023, the Board announced that 
Martina had decided to not seek re-election at 
the 2023 AGM, and would step down from the 
Board of Shell plc.
Board committee membership
Member of the Audit Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Non-executive Director of Prudential Financial 
Inc.; Colgate-Palmolive Company, and Truata Ltd
Age  Nationality
62  German and US Citizen
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued
137 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
137
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Career
Abraham ("Bram") Schot has been a member of the group Board of Volkswagen AG, responsible 
for the Premium Car Group, CEO of Audi AG, Chair of Lamborghini and Ducati, responsible for 
the VW group Commercial Operations and Vice-Chair of Porsche Holding Salzburg. 
From 2011 to 2016, he was a Member of the Board of Volkswagen CV, Executive Vice President 
responsible for Global Marketing, Sales & Services, New Business Models. In 2017 he became a 
member of the Board of Audi AG. From 2006 to 2011, Bram was President & CEO of Daimler/
Mercedes-Benz Italia & Holding S.p.A. From 2003 to 2006, he was President & CEO of 
DaimlerChrysler in the Netherlands. 
Prior to this, Bram held a number of Director and senior leadership roles within Mercedes-Benz in 
the Netherlands, having joined the business in 1987 on an executive management programme. 
Relevant skills and experience
Bram has over 30 years' experience working in the automotive industry at all levels of the business.
He gained a wealth of knowledge on far-reaching cost optimisation programmes at Audi AG. 
These helped transform the car company into a provider of electric vehicles that could offer 
sustainable mobility and succeed in the energy transition. He is well placed to leverage this 
knowledge in the Shell boardroom as Shell navigates its own transformation and pathway 
through the energy transition. 
Bram has strong principles and regards integrity and compliance as the basis for doing business. 
His studies have encompassed innovation and organisational effectiveness, geopolitical environments, 
shareholder value, corporate social responsibility and risk management, in several countries, which 
are all highly valued management tools and are evident in the questions he raises in the boardroom.
Abraham Schot
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
Two years and five months
(appointed October 1, 2020)
Board committee membership
Member of the Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee and member of the 
Remuneration Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Non-executive Director of Signify.
Age  Nationality
61  Dutch
Career
Cyrus Taraporevala was President and Chief Executive Officer of State Street Global Advisors 
from 2017 to 2022. Prior to his joining State Street, Cyrus held numerous leadership roles in asset 
management including at Fidelity, BNY Mellon, Legg Mason, and Citigroup. Earlier in his career 
Cyrus was a partner at McKinsey & Company, based in New York and Copenhagen.
Cyrus was a founding member of the New York Stock Exchange Board Advisory Council, which 
proactively addresses the critical need for inclusive leadership on corporate boards by connecting 
diverse candidates with companies seeking new directors. He serves as a Board member of The 
Trustees of Reservations, a Massachusetts-based non-profit conservation organisation, and chaired 
the investment committee of the trustees for seven years. Cyrus previously served as a trustee on 
the WK Kellogg Foundation Trust, one of the world’s largest endowments and foundations.
Relevant skills and experience 
Cyrus is a highly regarded, recently retired chief executive, with a unique mix of strategic 
perspectives and execution skills. He has deep experience in driving organic and inorganic 
growth, transformations, and turnarounds. He is one of the most senior professionals in the asset 
management industry and has successfully led and grown global businesses of scale. He played 
a critical role in affirming State Street’s reputation as both a stalwart and pioneer within the 
sector, and, at times, was implementing changes in the context of market uncertainty caused by 
geopolitical friction and an evolving regulatory environment. 
Cyrus also possesses a unique vantage point on core board-related issues impacting public 
companies including ESG, and has spoken and published multiple articles on climate risk and other 
aspects of ESG. He is credited with strengthening the ESG credentials of State Street Global Advisors 
and is highly credible in providing perspectives on these topics. A true citizen of the world, over the 
course of his career Cyrus has worked and lived on three continents.
Cyrus Taraporevala
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
Appointed March 2, 2023
Board committee membership
Member of the Audit Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Board member of Bridgepoint Group plc. 
Board member of The Trustees of Reservations
Age  Nationality
56  US Citizen
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued
138 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
138
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Career 
Caroline Omloo worked in private practice with law firm Nauta Dutilh before joining Shell in 1999. 
She has held various positions in Shell, including Secretary to the Audit Committee, Associate 
General Counsel Corporate Finance NL, Chief Privacy Officer and Head of Legal and management 
team member of the Downstream Operating Company in the Netherlands. She has also been a 
member of the board of Stichting Shell Pensioenfonds, one of Shell’s Dutch pension funds. 
Caroline took up her previous role as Head of Legal and Compliance of Shell Asset Management 
Company in 2017 and was a board member of this company from 2018 to 2022. From 2009- 2019, 
Caroline sat on the board of Stichting Beroepsopleiding Bedrijfsjuristen, the foundation providing 
education for in-house lawyers in the Netherlands. She also served as a board member of Missie 
Verkeersmiddelen Actie, a Dutch charitable organisation, from 2007 to 2017.
Relevant skills and experience
Caroline is Shell's Company Secretary and also plays an important role overseeing the Corporate 
Secretariat and the Group Securities Counsel in the UK, USA and the Netherlands.
The various roles Caroline has undertaken have provided her with a strong understanding of our 
global operations and people. Her experience of engaging with the Board in previous roles, coupled 
with her broad understanding and engagement across Shell’s businesses, functions and her legal 
background, helps to ensure that the right matters come to the Board at the right time.
Caroline J.M. Omloo
Company Secretary
Tenure
Seven months (appointed August 1, 2022)
Age  Nationality
53  Dutch
Retirements in 2022
Ben van Beurden (CEO)
Retired: December 31, 2022 (appointed January 2014).
Jessica Uhl (CFO)
Retired: March 31, 2022 (appointed March 2017).
Gerrit Zalm (Non-executive Director)
Retired: May 24, 2022. In line with best practice, Gerrit chose not to seek 
re-election at the 2022 AGM after serving nine years on the Board.
Linda M. Coulter (Company Secretary)
Retired: August 1, 2022 (appointed January 2017).
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued
139 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
139
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Board diversity
Gender diversity Non-executive Director tenure (years)
Non-executive Director sector experience Director nationality
The graphs above capture board diversity data as at the date of publication, being March 9, 2023.
Attendance
The Board met eight times during 2022. Seven of the eight 
meetings were held physically, one meeting in Singapore 
and six in London, United Kingdom. One meeting was held 
via videoconference. Attendance during 2022 for all Board 
meetings is given in the table [A].
[A] For attendance at Committee meetings during the year, please refer to 
individual Committee Reports. 
[B] Sinead Gorman was appointed as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) with effect 
from April 1, 2022. 
[C] Jessica Uhl retired from her role as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) with effect 
from March 31, 2022. 
[D] Gerrit Zalm retired from the Board following the conclusion of the AGM in 
May 2022.
Board member Meetings attended
Ben van Beurden 8/8
Dick Boer 8/8
Neil Carson 8/8
Ann Godbehere 8/8
Euleen Goh 8/8
Sinead Gorman [B] 6/6
Jane Holl Lute 7/8
Catherine J. Hughes 8/8
Martina Hund-Mejean 8/8
Sir Andrew Mackenzie 8/8
Bram Schot 7/8
Jessica Uhl [C] 2/2
Gerrit Zalm [D] 2/2
Director independence
All the Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement. The Chair is not subject to the 
Code’s independence test other than on appointment. 
Ethnic diversity
The Board is satisfied that it currently exceeds the recommendation from the Parker Review.
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued
140 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Male
Female
50%
50%
Accounting and Finance
Oil & gas, Extractives, Energy
Strategy development
Engineering, Industrial
Consumer, Marketing
Regulatory, Government 
affairs, Public policy
90%
70%
60%
90%
100%
50%
German
Lebanese
Dutch
American
Canadian
Singaporean
British
8%
8%
8%
25%
17%
17%
17%
0-3
4-6
7-9 11%
22%
67%
140
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Directors joining the Board
On February 1, 2023 the Board announced that the following Directors will be joining the Board on March 13, 2023.
Career
Sir Charles has most recently held the position of Second Permanent Secretary, one of the most 
senior positions within His Majesty’s Treasury (HMT). As Second Permanent Secretary at HMT he 
was responsible for all issues relating to growth, productivity, infrastructure, financial services and 
financial stability.
Prior to his career at HMT, Sir Charles spent over 25 years at McKinsey & Company, and holds an 
MBA from Harvard Business School. Whilst at McKinsey, he held positions including but not limited 
to a Director of the McKinsey Global Institute, the Head of the UK Financial Institutions Group and 
the Co-Head of McKinsey’s Global Investment Banking Practice. Sir Charles has serviced large 
banks, insurance companies, hedge funds and private-equity investors in strategy, risk management, 
and organisation. Sir Charles also led a number of major research efforts at McKinsey and authored 
a number of articles on strategy and scenario planning.
On leaving the private sector, Sir Charles became Director General, Financial Services at HMT and 
led the legislative process for the biggest reforms in the UK banking sector in a generation, before 
being appointed Second Permanent Secretary. During his time as Second Permanent Secretary, Sir 
Charles was responsible for policy and oversight across a range of functions within HMT including 
financial services, financial stability, infrastructure, energy, science/R&D, business investment, 
venture and growth capital, transport, and culture/creative industries and was Chair of the HMT 
Operating Committee.
Relevant skills and experience
Sir Charles’ succession of roles placed him at the nexus between industry and government, and 
most recently included his active participation in forging and delivering energy policies. He was an 
influential figure within the HMT in pioneering energy policy, including for COP26, and providing 
funding for innovative organisations to support the energy transition. 
A former executive board member for one of the world’s pre-eminent consultancies, Sir Charles 
continued to drive innovation whilst deftly navigating the intricate stakeholder landscape of 
UK government.
Sir Charles Roxburgh
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
Appointment effective March 13, 2023
Board committee membership
Member of the Audit Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Board member of Folger Shakespeare Library
Age  Nationality
63  British
Career
Leena Srivastava has devoted a significant part of her career to research and policy matters in 
sustainability and has already sat on several boards of scale. 
Until recently, Leena was the Deputy Director General for Science of the International Institute 
for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA). Prior to this, she was an Executive Director, then the Vice 
Chancellor of the School of Advanced Studies, at The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), a 
not-for-profit policy research organisation working in energy, environment and sustainable 
development. Leena has also previously served on the sustainability advisory boards of various 
multinational companies such as The Coca Cola Company, Caterpillar Inc and Suez 
Environment and as a non-executive director of companies, including those involved in 
manufacturing and infrastructure.
Leena has served various committees and organisations both at the international and national levels, 
with prior roles including energy and climate advisor for the United Nations and the Co-Chair of the 
Advisory Committee at Future Earth.
Relevant skills and experience 
Leena recognises the challenges large organisations face in managing different stakeholder priorities 
and in particular the challenges in balancing business, government and societal needs, while pursuing 
a sustainability agenda.
Leena was a research associate at TERI during a time when the first serious discussions on climate 
change were emerging. Later, as a member of the Cement Sustainability Initiative of World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development, she provided a pragmatic perspective on how to support the 
sector through its decarbonisation journey. With a strong network of relationships in multiple global 
institutions focused on sustainability and an understanding of the issues the energy sector faces in 
pursuing decarbonisation while serving the energy needs of the society, Leena believes she can 
contribute to the organisation during this period of transformation.
Leena Srivastava
Independent Non-executive Director
Tenure
Appointment effective March 13, 2023
Board committee membership
Member of the Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee
Outside interests/commitments
Board member of Climate-KIC
Age  Nationality
62  Indian
Governance
The Board of Shell plc continued
141 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
141
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The Senior management of 
the Company comprises the 
Executive Directors, Wael 
Sawan and Sinead Gorman, 
and those listed below. All 
are members of the Executive 
Committee (see "Governance 
Framework" on page 148).
Harry Brekelmans
Projects & Technology Director
Donny Ching
Legal Director
Tenure 
Eight years and five months
(appointed October 2014)
Age  Nationality
57   Dutch
Career 
Harry was previously Executive Vice President 
Upstream International Operated, based in the 
Netherlands. He joined Shell in 1990 and has held 
various management positions in Exploration and 
Production, Internal Audit, and Group Strategy and 
Planning. From 2011 to 2013, he was Country Chair 
Russia and Executive Vice President for Russia and 
the Caspian region.
Tenure 
Nine years and one month
(appointed February 2014)
Age  Nationality
58  Malaysian
Career 
Donny was previously General Counsel for Projects 
& Technology, based in the Netherlands. He joined 
Shell in 1988 based in Australia and then moved to 
Hong Kong and later to London. In 2008, he was 
appointed Head of Legal at Shell Singapore, having 
served as Associate General Counsel for Gas & 
Power in Asia-Pacific.
Ronan Cassidy
Chief Human Resources and 
Corporate Officer
Ed Daniels
Strategy, Sustainability and 
Corporate Relations Director 
Tenure 
Seven years and two months
(appointed January 2016)
Age  Nationality
56  British
Career 
Ronan previously served as EVP HR for both the 
Downstream and Upstream International businesses 
in turn. He joined Shell in 1988 and has held various 
HR positions across the Shell value chain, including 
regional roles in Europe and NE Asia/China, and 
global roles in HR Strategy & Regional 
Coordination, Retail and LPG. 
Tenure 
One year and one month
(appointed February 2022)
Age  Nationality
57  British
Career
Ed was previously Executive Vice President 
Strategy, Portfolio & Sustainability. He joined Shell 
in 1988 and has held roles in Shell’s Upstream, 
Integrated Gas, and Downstream businesses and 
our Projects & Technology organisation. He 
previously served as Shell’s UK Country Chair.
Governance
Senior management
142 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
142
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Huibert Vigeveno
Downstream Director 
Zoë Yujnovich
Upstream Director 
Tenure 
Three years and two months
(appointed January 2020) 
Age  Nationality
53  Dutch
Career
Huibert was previously Executive Vice President 
Global Commercial. He joined Shell in 1995 as 
a business analyst and led many Downstream 
businesses across Shell in Europe, Africa, North and 
South America as well as Asia. In 2009, Huibert 
was appointed Vice President Supply & Distribution, 
Europe and Africa. In 2012 he became Executive 
Chair of Shell in China, and in 2016 led the 
integration of BG Group.
Tenure 
One year and five months
(appointed October 2021) 
Age  Nationality
47  Australian
Career
Zoë has held various management positions in 
Downstream, Integrated Gas and Upstream. Most 
recently, she served as Executive Vice President 
Conventional Oil & Gas and was previously Chair 
and Executive Vice President Shell Australia Pty Ltd. 
She joined Shell from Rio Tinto in 2014 to lead 
Shell's Oil Sands business in Canada. 
Changes to the Executive Committee (Senior Management)
As announced on January 30, 2023, Shell is to reduce the size of its Executive Committee from nine to seven 
members in a decisive move designed to simplify the organisation further and improve performance as we continue 
to deliver our Powering Progress strategy.
Under the changes, which are expected to take effect on July 1, 2023, Shell’s Integrated Gas and Upstream 
businesses will be combined to form a new Integrated Gas and Upstream Directorate led by current Upstream 
Director, Zoe Yujnovich. The Downstream business will be combined with Renewables and Energy Solutions to 
form a new Downstream and Renewables Directorate led by current Downstream Director, Huibert Vigeveno. 
Separately, the Strategy, Sustainability and Corporate Relations (SSCR) Directorate will be discontinued and its 
Director, Ed Daniels, will step down from the Executive Committee (effective July 1, 2023), and leave Group service 
thereafter. Strategy will be brought together with New Business Development and, alongside Sustainability, will 
report directly to Sinead Gorman, Chief Financial Officer, enabling more streamlined planning and better capital 
allocation decisions. Corporate Relations will report directly to Wael Sawan, Chief Executive Officer. We thank Ed 
for his distinguished service over more than 34 years and wish him well for the future. 
Governance
Senior management continued
143 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
143
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Looking back on 2022, I am heartened by the drive and 
resolve of our people. Their ingenuity when managing 
complex problems, their enthusiasm in the face of 
challenge, and their industry-leading innovations. I am 
confident that they are positioning Shell effectively to
be successful through the energy transition and the 
challenging journey we face ahead.
We are at the start of a new leadership chapter in Shell’s history. Early 
in 2022, following the move of our headquarters from the Netherlands 
to the UK, Jessica Uhl, who at the time was Chief Financial Officer, took 
the decision that a long-term relocation to the UK was not sustainable 
for her and her family. She therefore stepped down from her role and 
Sinead Gorman was appointed CFO from April 1, 2022. The Board is 
immensely grateful to Jessica for her tremendous contribution to Shell 
over many years. In September 2022, we announced that Ben van 
Beurden, at the time Chief Executive Officer (CEO), would retire from 
the Board. Ben has been succeeded by Wael Sawan, who took the 
role of CEO from January 1, 2023. During the last decade, Ben has 
been in the vanguard for the transition of Shell to a net-zero emissions 
energy business by 2050. He has become a leading industry voice on 
some of the most important issues affecting society today. Ben’s legacy 
will frame Shell’s success for decades to come.
Both Wael and Sinead are very clear on the challenges that Shell 
faces to secure the supply of affordable energy for all parts of society, 
and encourage investment into forms of energy and solutions that 
help reduce emissions, whilst maintaining a profitable business that 
is cash flow positive. Making the most of the opportunities, risks and 
rewards confronting the business is a complex task, and as we move 
forward, the way in which we manage, govern and operate our 
business will evolve. 
 
Our recent independent Board evaluation has provided some thought-provoking 
discussion in this area, and more on this can be found on page 153.
As I reflect on the financial results of 2022, I do so with mixed 
emotions. Across the business, the performance of our people has been 
exceptional. They are each settling into their new normal for living with 
COVID-19, and many of our office-based staff now adopt a more 
flexible way of working, splitting their working week between the office 
and their homes. The macroeconomic uncertainty around prices and 
demand for oil and gas products, which had impacted Shell in 2020, 
generating losses of some $21.5 billion has now contributed, in part, to 
the 2022 income. Our robust earnings in 2022 have underpinned the 
return of $25.8 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and 
dividends. Capital expenditure of $22.6 billion was invested for the 
future of the organisation and net debt is now down to $44.8 billion. 
However, a factor driving some of this macroeconomic uncertainty is 
the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which has generated a humanitarian 
disaster, population displacement and heightened concern from 
neighbouring countries in the region. As well as being a human 
tragedy, the war has led to rising energy prices and deep uncertainty 
about supplies. This disruption in the global energy markets has 
contributed to a painful increase in the cost of living and highlighted 
that affordable, secure and reliable energy cannot be taken for 
granted. Although higher oil and gas prices have contributed to Shell’s 
performance, we must also recognise that Shell is now generating 
better value on the volumes that it produces, helped by the significant 
operational transformation of the organisation over the past 10 years. 
This transformation has helped us to achieve our highest ever adjusted 
earnings of $40 billion, which is around $17 billion higher than in 
2014, when Brent prices were at a similar level as that in 2022.
As Wael shared earlier in this report, as the issues in Ukraine unfolded, 
our actions were guided by continuous discussions with governments 
about the need to disentangle society from Russian energy flows, while 
maintaining energy supplies. Our immediate focus was the safety of our 
people in Ukraine and supporting our people in Russia. In discussion 
with governments around the world, we worked through the detailed 
business implications, including the importance of secure energy 
supplies to Europe and other markets, in compliance with relevant 
sanctions. Throughout this crisis Shell has continued to focus on the 
support it can provide to the Ukrainian people. 
The energy supply issues seen throughout Europe, as a result of the 
Russia/Ukraine conflict, have highlighted that the solution to the 
climate challenges confronting society is not as simple as stopping the 
extraction of oil and gas and wholly shifting capital investment into 
other areas. Crucially, the cash flows from oil and gas also help fund 
Shell’s investments in energy businesses and energy solutions that 
contribute to reducing emissions. These help Shell, our customers and 
entire sectors to cut emissions and accelerate the energy transition. The 
cash generated by Shell’s oil and gas operations provide returns to our 
investors, which include global pension funds, governments, insurance 
companies and investment products through which the general public 
invest. Society remains heavily reliant on oil and gas, and it is all too 
clear that the reduction in supply is driving up market prices and 
contributing to a cost-of-living crisis in many areas of the world.
The situation in Europe has encouraged society to work together to 
deliver change, and it is promising to see governments, companies and 
society working more closely to determine what is needed to drive this 
change. Our detailed policies serve as a global framework for Shell’s 
advocacy with governments, international organisations, industry 
associations, coalitions, and other stakeholders globally, regionally 
and within countries. The energy transition will require many billions of 
dollars of investment. When governments provide clear direction and 
regulation with a stable tax environment, companies can invest more 
in this transition.
Sir Andrew Mackenzie 
Chair
Governance
Introduction from the Chair
144
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Energy transition strategy
In February 2021, Shell announced its intention to put its energy 
transition strategy to shareholders for an advisory vote every three 
years, with the first vote being a resolution at the 2021 AGM. This 
was an important step for Shell and the first time that an energy 
company asked shareholders to vote on its energy transition strategy. 
Shareholders endorsed the energy transition strategy, with 89% 
voting in favour of this resolution. At the 2022 AGM, almost 80% of 
shareholders that voted supported our progress in this strategy, and 
shareholders will be asked again with the same resolution being put to 
the 2023 AGM. In 2024 our energy transition strategy itself will come 
back to shareholders for an advisory vote and we will be engaging on 
this strategy through the latter part of 2023. Our target to become a 
net-zero emissions energy business by 2050 stands strong and 
shareholder support is important as our business changes. 
Board leadership and Shell’s purpose
The UK Corporate Governance Code (the "Code") provides that 
the board should promote the long-term sustainable success of the 
company, generating value for shareholders and contributing to wider 
society. The Board believes that Shell’s efforts give it an effective 
framework to play its part in the energy transition as a growing, 
successful, commercial organisation. In the Board’s view, this 
framework will allow Shell to provide the energy solutions that 
consumers will want and buy in this period of uncertain change. 
The Board also thinks that Shell will be able to deliver against its 
recently published targets and reduce the carbon intensity of the 
energy products it sells.
Shell's purpose is set out in the early pages of this Annual Report. 
Throughout this Governance report we will focus on how Shell’s 
governance operates in practice, and why we believe this is the 
best approach for us. 
The Governance report is structured around the key themes of the 
Code. Our narrative seeks to explain how governance supports 
and protects Shell and our stakeholders. 
Although Shell applies the principles and the spirit of the Code, there 
is one instance where we adopt an approach slightly different from 
that suggested by one of the Code’s provisions, namely Provision 5 
which concerns workforce engagement. We explain this on page 147. 
We consider our governance processes are appropriate, given the 
specific circumstances and range of factors particular to Shell, such 
as its global nature, size, complexity and history. 
The last couple of years have encouraged and challenged society to 
become more accepting of technology to facilitate virtual engagement. 
For our business, this has led to significant cost savings in the area of 
travel, and helped our people to spend more time with their families. 
For our stakeholders, we now have the ability to engage more, and 
reach a wider audience. For shareholders, our AGM is a hybrid 
meeting, allowing our global shareholder base to easily participate 
in proceedings. 
Information on how the Board discharges its duty in relation to 
key stakeholder interests, including those of our workforce, and 
an explanation of how it considered these when making principal 
decisions are set out on page 125. On page 150 we provide 
information about our Board activities and highlight which 
stakeholders we considered.
Our workforce engagement methods remain unchanged from those 
previously disclosed. As we moved out of the parameters of COVID-19 
restrictions, the Board was able to undertake a greater level of face-to-
face engagement with Shell people during the year. More on this can 
be found on page 157. We continue to believe that constructive 
relationships built on mutual respect and transparency help Shell 
attract and retain employees while supporting greater productivity and 
operational safety and efficiency. Ensuring that the employee voice is 
heard on relevant matters in the boardroom in practical ways is key to 
understanding the broader impact of business decisions, including with 
respect to organisational culture. 
The Board recognises the importance of culture in delivering Shell’s 
purpose and strategy. Shell’s culture reflects the values of the 
organisation – honesty, integrity and respect for people. These 
underpin all the work we do and are embedded in our strategy 
and purpose. We make sure that the voices of employees are heard 
on relevant matters so that we understand the impact of business 
decisions on organisational culture. The Board will continue to 
increase its focus on Shell’s culture to make sure it aligns with the 
broader business strategy. 
Division of responsibilities
More information on how the Board and its Committees support 
business operations is provided on page 148. Further detail is 
contained within the Terms of Reference for each Committee, and the 
Matters Reserved for the Board, which are provided on our website. 
Each year the Committees’ Terms of Reference are reviewed and 
updated, as required.
Composition, succession and evaluation
 
For biographies of current Board members see pages 133-141. 
 
For how the Board, Committees and Directors appraised their performance see 
page 153.
 An overview of the CEO succession process is included on page 159. 
During the year Jessica Uhl stepped down as Chief Financial Officer 
(CFO) of Shell plc, effective March 31, 2022. Sinead Gorman was 
appointed CFO of Shell plc, effective April 1, 2022. Ben van Beurden 
stepped down from his role as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) at the end 
of 2022, his successor was Wael Sawan. Wael’s appointment as CEO 
was effective January 1, 2023. Wael is an exceptional leader, with all 
the qualities required to drive Shell safely and profitably through its 
next phase of transition and growth.
Governance
Introduction from the Chair continued
145
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The 2022 AGM was Gerrit Zalm’s last day with Shell, after nine
years’ service as a Non-executive Director. Gerrit is a highly regarded 
and seasoned leader. He provided insightful counsel and deep 
understanding of global business and we thank him for his nine
years of valuable contribution to the business. 
Following Gerrit’s departure, Committee memberships were reviewed. 
Jane Holl Lute stepped down from the Audit Committee and joined the 
Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee and Bram Schot 
joined the Remuneration Committee.
In October 2022, we announced the appointment of Cyrus 
Taraporevala as a Non-executive Director of the Company, effective 
March 2, 2023. Cyrus became a member of the Company’s Audit 
Committee on the same date.
In February 2023, we announced that: 
▪ Euleen Goh will stand down from her role as Deputy Chair and 
Senior Independent Director at the 2023 AGM after nearly nine 
years’ service. She has provided invaluable advice to me as Chair, 
and I wish her all the best for her future endeavours;
▪ Following the departure of Euleen, Dick Boer will become Deputy 
Chair and Senior Independent Director with effect from the 
conclusion of the 2023 AGM;
▪ Martina Hund-Mejean will stand down from her role as Non-
executive Director from the conclusion of the 2023 AGM. She leaves 
with our best wishes and we thank her for her valuable contributions;
▪ Sir Charles Roxburgh and Leena Srivastava were appointed as Non-
executive Directors of the Company, with effect from March 13, 
2023. Their biographies are provided on page 141; and
▪ Changes were made to the membership of our Board Committees. 
These changes are reflected in the biographies of the respective 
Directors. 
Audit, Risk management and Internal control
Throughout the year the Audit Committee assisted the Board in 
maintaining a sound system of risk management and internal control 
and oversight over Shell’s financial reporting. A variety of standing 
matters and more specific topics are discussed by the Audit Committee 
throughout the year. As part of the year-end reporting process, the 
Audit Committee advises the Board on the adequacy of the system 
of risk management and internal control, the appropriateness of the 
viability statement and going concern basis of accounting. The Audit 
Committee also advises on whether this Annual Report, taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for stakeholders to assess Shell’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy.
 
More information on the Audit Committee’s activities, highlights and priorities 
can be found in its report on pages 165-177.
Looking ahead
Shell has already started to evolve its business. Some of the steps 
are more visible, such as investment in new business operations, 
acquisitions and divestments, other steps less visible, like internal 
organisational changes or policy change. We are very aware that 
the steps of our transformation will be intensely scrutinised by society 
and the environment in which we operate will continue to change 
rapidly. Under our renewed leadership, Shell will be steadfast, agile 
and sensitive to the opportunities, risks and rewards confronting 
the business.
We are cognisant, yet accept, that not all of our stakeholders will be 
fully supportive of the decisions that we take, and these stakeholders 
will have differing methods of communicating their views and their 
concerns. However, we will continue to engage with stakeholders, 
and we will have the humility to listen, learn and adapt as we focus 
and frame our strategy on the long-term success of the Company. 
I, my fellow Directors on the Board, and our colleagues across the 
business, remain confident that Shell is up to the task ahead.
Sir Andrew Mackenzie
Chair
March 8, 2023
Governance
Introduction from the Chair continued
146
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The Board confirms that, throughout the year, the Company has 
applied the principles, both in spirit and in form, and complied with the 
provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in July 2018 (the "Code"), with the 
exception of Provision 5 noted below. A copy of the Code can be 
found on the FRC’s website: www.frc.org.uk. 
Shell’s governance arrangements have been considered alongside 
the Code. The information set out in the Directors’ report, including 
the Board Committee reports on (pages 159-202), is intended to 
provide an explanation of how the Code's principles were applied 
practically throughout the year. We also provided clear and 
meaningful explanation below where we believe stakeholders may 
benefit from more specific information on a particular Code provision.
Workforce engagement (Provision 5)
The size and diversity of our employee base and wider workforce have 
complicated the feasibility of implementing any of the three specific 
workforce engagement methods recommended in the Code. The Board 
believes that its current approach to workforce engagement continues 
to be pragmatic and effective, particularly when considered against 
the required coverage needed for a global organisation such as Shell. 
Elsewhere in this Annual Report, we explain how our people are 
essential to the successful delivery of the Shell strategy, and how the 
Board recognises the importance of understanding their views through 
engagement. In previous Annual Reports, we communicated the 
Board’s desire and intention to increase its direct engagements, when 
the Board, Committees and individual Directors visit our sites across 
the world. As we moved through 2022, the ongoing travel restrictions 
associated with the COVID-19 pandemic eased, which helped the 
Board engage with parts of the workforce more closely again. 
While some engagements could be held physically, others were held 
virtually, and there were opportunities for the Board to speak with 
our stakeholders and obtain feedback. The Board also intends to 
keep the effectiveness of the engagements under review. Stakeholder 
engagement also continues to be enhanced in management reporting. 
 
More information on the current approach and a description of the channels 
used by the Board, its committees, and the Executive Committee are outlined 
in "Workforce engagement" on pages 
157-158. 
AGM voting (Provision 4)
At the 2022 AGM, 20.29% of shareholders supported a resolution 
which the Board had recommended voting against. Shareholders also 
voted 20.09% against a resolution proposed by the Board. Provision 
4 of the Code requires certain actions to be undertaken if 20% or 
more of shareholders vote in a way which is different to what the Board 
recommended. There are three stages to these actions. First, explain 
when announcing the voting results what actions the Company intends 
to take to consult shareholders to understand the reasons behind the 
voting result. Shell included this explanation with its voting results, 
published on May 24, 2022. Second, an update on the engagement 
with shareholders should be published no later than six months after 
the shareholder meeting. This statement was added to the Shell 
website in October 2022. Third, a final summary of the engagement 
and the actions taken should be included within the Annual Report. 
This information is provided on page 154.
Corporate governance requirements outside the UK
In addition to complying with applicable corporate governance 
requirements in the UK, the Company complies with the rules of 
Euronext Amsterdam as well as Dutch securities laws because of 
its listing on that exchange. The Company likewise adheres to US 
securities laws and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules 
and regulations because its securities are registered in the USA 
and listed on the NYSE.
Governance
Statement of compliance with the UK
Corporate Governance Code
147 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
147
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Board of Directors
The Company has a single-tier Board of Directors headed by a Chair, with executive management led by the Chief Executive Officer. 
The names of the Directors who held office during the year can be found on pages 133-141. Information on the Directors who are 
seeking appointment or reappointment is included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
There is no fixed amount of times that the Board may meet in one year. During 2022, the Board met eight times (12 times during 
2021) and, as detailed throughout our Strategic Report, including the Section 172 statement and activities undertaken throughout 
the year, worked hard to promote the long-term sustainable success of the Company, generating value for shareholders and 
contributing to wider society. Further information on the Board’s work and assessments in relation to strategy, culture, engagement 
with stakeholders, and its workforce can be found as follows: 
The Board’s responsibilities are governed by a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and include:
▪ Approval of overall strategy and oversight of management;
▪ Changes to the corporate and capital structure;
▪ Approval of financial reporting and controls (including approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, approval of the Annual 
Report on Form 20-F, and interim dividends);
▪ Oversight of risk management and internal control;
▪ Approval of significant contracts;
▪ Determining succession planning and new Board appointments;
▪ Remuneration for the Chair and Executive Directors; and
▪ Corporate governance matters.
Board Committees
 
Audit Committee
▪ Carries out certain oversight functions on behalf of the 
Board; and
▪ Assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation 
to internal control and financial reporting.
Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee
▪ Carries out certain oversight functions on behalf of the 
Board; and
▪ Assists the Board on safety, the environment including 
climate change, and Shell’s overall sustainability 
performance.
Nomination and Succession Committee
▪ Leads the process for appointments to the Board;
▪ Recommends Board appointments and re-appointments;
▪ Provides oversight on the diversity and inclusion 
strategy;
▪ Reviews and makes recommendations on succession 
planning; and
▪ Reviews and makes recommendations on corporate 
governance guidelines.
Remuneration Committee
▪ Determines and agrees with the Board the remuneration 
policy for the Chair, Executive Directors and Senior 
Management of the Company;
▪ Within the terms of such agreed policy, determines 
individual remuneration packages for the Chair, and 
Executive Directors; and
▪ Monitors and makes recommendations regarding the 
level and structure of remuneration for senior executives, 
if appropriate.
More information on the composition of each of the Board Committees, their roles and activities during the year is provided on the 
following pages:
Audit Committee 165-177 Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee 163-164
Nomination and Succession Committee 159-162 Remuneration Committee 178-182
Governance
Governance framework
148 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
148
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Board of Directors continued
Division of responsibilities
The roles of the Chair, a non-executive role, and the CEO are separate and clearly defined. The Board has agreed on their respective 
responsibilities and set these out in writing. These documents are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Chair
▪ Responsible for ensuring that the Board and its Committees function effectively. One way in which this is achieved is by ensuring 
Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information; and
▪ Responsible for making sure that there is an adequate induction and training programme followed by all Directors (see page 152), 
with assistance from the Company Secretary.
Deputy Chair/Senior Independent Director
▪ Sounding board for the Chair;
▪ Serves as an intermediary for the other Directors and shareholders; and
▪ Leads the annual appraisal of the Chair’s performance.
Non-executive Directors
▪ Appointed by the Board or by shareholders at general meetings and, in accordance with the Code, seek re-election by 
shareholders on an annual basis;
▪ Letters of appointment refer to a specific term of office, the provisions of the Code and the Company’s Articles of Association;
▪ Upon appointment, Non-executive Directors confirm they are able to allocate sufficient time to meet the expectations of the 
role. Appointments are subject to a minimum of three months’ notice of termination, and there is no compensation provision for 
early termination;
▪ The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range and balance of skills and international business experience. Through their 
contribution to the Board and Board Committee meetings, respectively, they are expected to challenge and help develop 
proposals on strategy and bring independent judgement on issues of performance and risk; and
▪ At every Board meeting, time is set aside for the Chair and Non-executive Directors to meet without the Executive Directors being 
present. The Non-executive Directors discuss, among other matters, the performance of individual Executive Directors. A number of 
Non-executive Directors also meet major shareholders over the course of the year.
 
Executive Management
Chief Executive Officer
▪ Has overall responsibility for the implementation of the 
strategy approved by the Board, the operational 
management of the Company and the business enterprise 
connected with it; and
▪ Is supported in this by the Executive Committee that he 
chairs.
Executive Committee
▪ Operates under the direction of the Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO) in support of his responsibility for the overall 
management of Shell’s business. The CEO has final 
authority in all matters of management that are not within 
the duties and authorities of the Board or of the 
shareholders’ general meeting; and
▪ Executive Committee members are listed in the Senior 
Management biographies on pages 142-143.
Governance documents available on www.shell.com/investor:
▪ Articles of Association
▪ Matters Reserved for the Board
▪ Board Committee Terms of Reference
▪ Modern Slavery Act Statement
▪ Shell General Business Principles
▪ Shell Code of Conduct
▪ Code of Ethics for Executive Directors and Senior Financial Officers
Governance
Governance framework continued
149 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
149
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Board activities
The Board is responsible for establishing the Group's purpose, values 
and strategy and ensuring that these and Group culture are aligned. 
Accordingly, the Board works to a yearly meeting plan with 
corresponding agendas and pre-read papers, provided digitally. 
Agenda items include reports from the Chief Executive Officer, the 
Chief Financial Officer and each Board committee. Other updates 
throughout the year came from various businesses and key functions, 
including Investor Relations; Health and Safety, Security and 
Environment; Information Technology; Human Resources; and Legal, 
as well as the Company Secretary. The Board also considers and 
approves the quarterly, half-year and full-year financial results, 
shareholder distributions and the associated announcements, and, 
at most meetings, considers investment, divestment and/or financing 
proposals, as well as conducting post-investment reviews and 
performance tracking, as and when required. Additionally, the Board 
reviews the Group's annual operating plan, including activities to 
ensure the Group's carbon reduction targets are met. To enable 
purposeful debates and focus on particular aspects of agenda topics, 
including the impact on key stakeholders, Directors have an 
opportunity to specify information they require to be provided 
in advance of Board meetings.
During the year, where possible, certain Non-executive Directors 
conducted site visits. The visits were designed to provide Directors 
with a deeper insight into certain business operations.
More detail on these can be found in the table below and on pages 151 to 152.
Some of the activities and areas of Board focus over the year are 
summarised in the table below. The information below is not 
exhaustive. Information on other topics discussed by the Board and 
details of the resulting decisions are covered elsewhere, primarily in 
the Section 172 statement provided earlier in this report on pages 
125-131. In some cases, a brief outline has been provided below, 
and page references are provided for additional and more 
comprehensive information.
Board Strategy Days
In contrast to 2021’s virtual June Strategy Days, for 2022, in-person 
meetings were held in Singapore over the course of three days. This 
was the first time both the Board and Executive Committee were able 
to spend time together in person since the COVID-19 pandemic started 
in early 2020. The programme for the event aimed at having engaging 
and interactive sessions (with deep dives and break-outs), with both 
internal and external stakeholders (including staff, customer, supplier, 
regional country chairs and other key stakeholders).
The event, under the headline "Onwards Together", focused on Shell’s 
role in energy transition in country and how this is implemented, by 
tying together not only individual pieces of the portfolio but connecting 
Shell’s heritage with its future. Around this theme, the event provided 
for the following key discussion and engagement opportunities:
▪ An in-depth discussion on strategy and business implementation, 
with an emphasis on the added value of Shell’s integrated portfolio 
in accelerating energy transition in country;
▪ Review of the role of Upstream in driving the energy transition;
▪ Review of the continuing demand for gas, and its decarbonisation 
journey;
▪ Review of Financial Framework;
▪ Review of safe operations and digitalisation as an enabler;
▪ Deep dives on low-carbon fuels, Aviation, Chemicals, Renewables 
and Energy Solutions, and carbon capture and storage;
▪ An Asian perspective on the energy transition and its geopolitical 
context, including engagement with Shell leaders from across the 
region;
▪ Review of growing our sustainable future safely and competitively 
where presenters included a cross-section of business and site staff;
▪ A visit to Shell operations, notably the Shell Energy and Chemicals 
Park on Pulau Bukom focusing on readying the site for growth; 
▪ Engagements with a cross-section of Shell’s approximately 
3,000 staff in Singapore who work across six work sites in
a range of key businesses and functions;
▪ Consistent with the customer back strategy, discussions with key 
customers and stakeholders in the region; and 
▪ Discussion of core elements of the Powering Progress strategy.
 
Board leadership and company purpose
External 
business 
environment 
▪ Received updates on and discussed regional geopolitical 
issues and market outlook.
▪ Considered feedback from investor community on quarterly 
financial performance, including business segment results. 
A, B, C, D, E, F, G 
Strategy ▪ Reviewed and discussed progress of strategy including 
management recommendations.
▪ Directors participated in Board Strategy Days.
▪ Reviewed and discussed the Group's annual operating 
plan for 2022.
▪ Alignment on outcomes from Board Strategy Days.
▪ Shell energy transition strategy and AGM vote.
▪ Provided with a forward-looking overview of the business, 
projected investments and opportunities, as well as key 
parameters in delivering carbon reduction targets.
A, B, C, D, E, F, G 
Country exits ▪ Considered exits from certain countries, based on an 
examination of proposals from management and 
businesses.
▪ Considered impact of Shell’s withdrawal from Russia.
▪ Approved proposals, after a review of the following in each 
relevant country: business situation; legal risks; reputation and 
investor considerations; country, regional and geopolitical 
landscape; and security situation.
A, B, C, D, E, F, G
Culture
Shell People 
Survey (2022 
results)
▪ In December 2022, the Board reviewed the results of 
the 2022 Shell People Survey. 
▪ The Board considered the improved scores on reputation within 
the context of broader societal challenges, noting significant 
regional and country-level variations. 
▪ The Board reflected on the likely resilience of the results in the 
event of further cultural or business change and, noting the 
strong scores on team leadership, the potential for further 
simplification, focus and accountability to bring improvements 
in metrics such as workload.
B
A – investor community B – employees/workforce/pensioners C – regulators/governments D – NGOs/civil society stakeholders/academia/think-tanks
E – communities F – customers G – suppliers/strategic partners
Topic Discussion/activity/updates included Examples of outcome/progress
Stakeholders 
considered
Governance
Board activities
150 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
150
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Culture continued
Staff updates ▪ Received updates from management and Board Committees 
on senior executive staff movements.
▪ Engagement through various sources such as Shell People 
Survey results, talent information, conduct and culture risk 
dashboard, Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Report, 
cultural information embedded in investment proposals. 
▪ The Board was provided with regular updates and 
obtained informal feedback on the post-Reshape 
environment and on topics such as health, safety 
and the environment.
B
Board staff 
engagements 
▪ Directors participated in staff engagements on site visits 
(both in person and virtual).
▪ Received updates from management on staff 
achievements and outstanding contributions made by our 
people supporting communities, promoting social justice 
or intervening in challenging circumstances to uphold 
ethics and compliance standards.
▪ Gained first-hand insight into the development and culture 
of operations and maintenance teams, as well as staff 
perspectives on other matters of interest to our people. 
▪ Received practical examples of ways in which staff 
members were exhibiting Shell's core values and 
contributing to society.
B
Audit, risk and internal control
Safety and 
Environment
▪ Received regular updates from management on safety and 
environment performance. 
▪ Throughout the year, Directors shared reflections and insights 
on topics related to core values and safety.
▪ Received regular updates from the Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee, including site visit reports and 
engagement with stakeholders.
▪ Provided with commentary and examples of how safety 
continues to be upheld as important by staff. 
▪ Gained perspective and brought diversity of thought to 
Board discussions by using learnings and insight gained 
outside Shell.
▪ Provided with insights into the views and priorities of 
NGOs, communities and other stakeholders. 
B, D, E, F, G
Risk 
management 
and internal 
control
▪ Reviewed risk reports, covering cyber-security risk, external 
trends, emerging risks, proposed changes to the Group’s 
strategic, operational and conduct and culture risk profiles.
▪ Received updates on risk strategy, operational risks and 
culture and conduct risk.
▪ Received update from the Audit Committee relating to site 
visits (including application of Shell Control Framework)
▪ Received recommendation on reappointment of external 
auditors.
▪ Considered the effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control system. 
▪ Reflected on progress regarding risk management and 
controls, adoption of new technology, enhancements to 
management of climate risk and disclosures. 
▪ Reappointment of external auditors submitted to 
shareholders for approval.
A, E, F
Composition, succession and evaluation
Succession 
planning
▪ Received recommendations from the Nomination and 
Succession Committee (NOMCo) regarding succession 
plans and Board and committee composition, as well as 
the appointment of a new Non-executive Director, Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company 
Secretary.
▪ Received updates from the Nomination and Succession 
Committee (NOMCo) on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion.
▪ Kept regularly informed about succession planning 
arrangements. 
▪ The Board considered metrics on internal and external 
customer satisfaction, and on staff retention as part of 
assessing leadership strength, with the Board reflecting 
on the work done to drive sustained improvements in the 
quality of team leadership.
▪ The Board considered diversity, including scope for further 
improvements in ethnic and gender diversity in senior 
leadership roles.
▪ The Board considered the role of Country Chairs, noting 
scope for further clarity in coordinating country responses 
to energy transition.
▪ Approved recommendations regarding the appointment 
of new Directors and Officers. 
▪ Please see the "Nomination and Succession Committee" 
section for further details.
A, B, D, E
Board and 
committee 
effectiveness 
reviews
▪ Examined the evaluation report after the assessment 
conducted by an independent external third party on the 
effectiveness and performance of the Board, its committees 
and the Chair.
▪ Concluded that throughout the year, the Board, its 
committees and the Chair continued to operate effectively.
▪ Please refer to Board evaluation on page 153 for further 
details.
A, B, D, E, F, G
Board 
membership, 
other 
appointments
▪ Reviewed Directors’ tenure, external commitments, conflicts 
of interests, composition/membership of Board committees 
and appointments.
▪ Approved committee membership changes, approach 
to conflicts of interest and appointments to the Board, 
following recommendations made by the NOMCo. 
▪ Approved a renewal of the Directors' terms and tenure, 
where relevant.
▪ Please see "Nomination and Succession Committee" 
for further details. 
A, B, D, E
A – investor community B – employees/workforce/pensioners C – regulators/governments D – NGOs/civil society stakeholders/academia/think-tanks
E – communities F – customers G – suppliers/strategic partners
Topic Discussion/activity/updates included Examples of outcome/progress
Stakeholders 
considered
Governance
Board activities continued
151 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
151
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Composition, succession and evaluation continued
Talent overview 
and senior 
succession 
review
▪ Received updates on senior succession strategy. ▪ Enhanced insight into Shell talent and future leaders, 
assurance of robust succession and contingency plans.
B
Remuneration
Remuneration 
and reward 
matters
▪ Oversight of matters reviewed and considered by the 
Remuneration Committee.
▪ Received regulatory, political and investor insights 
and updates relating to reward matters.
A, B, C
Governance matters
Governance ▪ Provided with emerging corporate governance developments 
and updates relating to ethics and compliance matters. 
▪ Modern Slavery Statement and assurance, and considered 
other regulatory and legislative requirements.
▪ Reviewed Matters Reserved for the Board and Board 
Committee Terms of Reference.
▪ Provided with insight of consultations and projects relating 
to governance and legislative requirements and Shell's 
participation.
▪ Approved a single Group Modern Slavery Act Statement.
A, B, C, D, E, F
Ethics & 
Compliance
▪ Reviewed the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer's 
annual report. 
▪ Received insight and observations that Shell's ethical 
processes were robust. Also received confirmation that 
interaction with Shell staff was positive and reflective of 
Shell's values.
A, B, C, D, E, F
A – investor community B – employees/workforce/pensioners C – regulators/governments D – NGOs/civil society stakeholders/academia/think-tanks
E – communities F – customers G – suppliers/strategic partners
Topic Discussion/activity/updates included Examples of outcome/progress
Stakeholders 
considered
Director induction and training
After being appointed to the Board, Directors receive a comprehensive induction tailored to their individual needs. This normally includes site visits and meetings 
with Senior Management to enable them to build up a detailed understanding of Shell’s business and strategy, and the key risks and issues that Shell faces. 
Existing Directors are also able to join these visits to keep abreast of business developments and progress. With the abnormal COVID-19 circumstances in 2020 
and 2021, the induction programme was quickly adapted to a completely virtual induction. In 2022, as society moved to better understand and live with 
COVID-19, we saw restrictions ease in many countries. More travel became possible, allowing directors to visit some of Shell's operations. For new directors 
joining the Board in 2023, our induction programme will build on the learnings from 2020 through 2022 and adopt a more hybrid format, making the best use 
of the directors time through virtual and physical engagements. Onboarding will continue to be phased and prioritised based on forthcoming Board agenda 
items to help ensure the new Non-executive Directors hit the ground running. 
A digital onboarding book is provided to each new Non-executive Director. These onboarding books complement the existing digital Directors' Handbook and 
feature: 
▪ Overviews of scheduled briefing meetings customised to the Non-executive Directors' needs and linked to upcoming Board agenda items;
▪ Hyperlinks to key Shell publications (external and internal);
▪ Lists of common Shell acronyms;
▪ Key current materials on:
– Shell’s safety and core values; 
– Board governance;
– Group strategy and portfolio; 
– Key businesses and functions; and
– Climate change and energy transition;
▪ Biographies of key executives. 
▪ Other elements of the onboarding programme for Non-executive Directors include:
– Briefing meetings with key executives (both business and functional) customised to Non-executive Directors’ needs and phased based on forthcoming 
Board agenda items;
– Pairing up new Non-executive Directors in onboarding briefings to optimise learning while also providing opportunities for collegial relationship-building 
and increasing efficiencies for the executives; and
– Virtual and physical site visits (either specifically for onboarding or by inviting the new Directors to committees' site visits). 
Governance
Board activities continued
152 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
152
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Board Review Process
The 2022 Board evaluation looked to support the discussion on the 
way ahead as Shell faces its biggest challenge, managing the business 
through the energy transition. 
As required by the Code every three years, the 2022 evaluation was 
conducted differently from that in 2021 and 2020. First, the evaluation 
was an externally facilitated self-evaluation by an external provider, 
Jan Hall of No 4, through one-on-one interviews with the Board and 
key individuals, as opposed to a questionnaire approach for 2020 and 
2021. Second, the 2022 evaluation process guided a more strategic 
review of the Board and its operation to consider not merely how the 
Board might make improvements to an already well-functioning Board 
but also how to be the most effective Board it can be for Shell over the 
next 3-5 years. The evaluation was conducted according to the 
guidance in the Code. Jan Hall and No 4 have no connection or 
relationship to the Company or to any Director.
Selecting the facilitator
The tender process to select the individual/company that would 
facilitate the 2022 Board Evaluation was led by Euleen Goh, Deputy 
Chair and Senior Independent Director, supported by Caroline Omloo, 
Company Secretary. Euleen Goh presented a short list of providers to 
the Nomination and Succession Committee for discussion and selection 
of the provider. 
Planning for the evaluation
The process started with briefing meetings where Jan Hall met the 
Chair, CEO, Deputy Chair/Senior Independent Director, Company 
Secretary and previous Company Secretary. These meetings helped 
Jan Hall understand the Board, how it operates, the strategic priorities 
for Shell and she then formulated a comprehensive brief for the 
evaluation process. Jan Hall then prepared a discussion guideline 
which formed the basis of her one-on-one meetings. The discussion 
guideline was sent to the individuals who participated in the Board 
evaluation ahead of her meetings with them.
Discussion and Observation (Stage 1)
In October and November 2022, detailed interviews were conducted 
with every Board member, the Company Secretary and prior Company 
Secretary, the External Audit partner, all members of the Executive 
Committee, the Committee Secretaries and the Chief Internal Auditor. 
All participants were interviewed by Jan Hall who facilitated an open, 
confidential, unattributed conversation with each person. She observed 
the Board and Committee meetings in October and a Committee 
meeting in December. In addition, she reviewed the materials 
presented to Directors ahead of these meetings. 
Analysis (Stage 2)
A report synthesising and summarising feedback from all of the input, 
and making recommendations was prepared and shared with the Chair 
and CEO for comment.
Outcomes (Stage 3)
Draft conclusions were discussed with the Chair and subsequently 
discussed with the whole Board at a dedicated meeting held in January 
2023, which was also attended by Jan Hall. This format provided a 
freer and unconstrained discussion. She highlighted key findings from 
the evaluation, facilitated discussion and answered any questions. Jan 
Hall separately discussed the report on the Chair’s performance with 
Euleen Goh, the Senior Independent Director. A separate discussion in 
relation to the performance of the Chair was led by Euleen Goh (in the 
absence of the Chair). Individual feedback was provided to each 
director by the Chair.
Overall the Board was found to be functioning well, with a high level 
of commitment from both the Non-executive and Executive Directors. 
Improvements identified were merely to fine-tune an already effective 
Board. There is a collegiate spirit and good personal relationships with 
a high degree of mutual respect, with people able to speak up and feel 
that they are listened to. The agenda has been broad ranging and the 
Committees have complemented the Board agenda to ensure that the 
Board has covered the areas viewed to be key. 
At the time of the evaluation process, the Nomination and Succession 
Committee was undertaking a recruitment process for new Non-
executive Directors in preparation of anticipated departures in 2023. 
Therefore, no changes were found to be necessary to the Board 
composition as a result of the evaluation. 
Feedback on the themes from the Board discussion
The Board intends to continue to focus on being a well functioning 
Board, spending additional time on strategic matters, and placing an 
even greater focus on Shell's key stakeholders around the world. In line 
with this the Board will refresh its agendas to better support its priorities 
on strategy and utilise its time as effectively as possible. Further, the 
Board confirmed its continued support to help the CEO deliver Shell's 
goals in the short, medium and long term, with specific focus on driving 
greater accountability throughout the organisation; evolving Shell's 
culture to become more agile and to move at greater pace; building 
on his newly announced changes to the Executive Committee, to focus 
on developing the leadership across Shell and optimising people 
development and talent management.
Feedback themes for the Committees 
The Committees were considered to be well chaired and well operated. 
It was agreed that the Board would undertake a more strategic review 
of the Committees' agendas and remit to ensure alignment with the 
Board's future priorities and longer term aspirations. In addition, there 
was wide recognition of the value of greater involvement of all Board 
members in matters of Board and Executive succession, as had been 
facilitated for the appointment of the new CEO and recent changes to 
the Executive Committee. It is therefore anticipated that this format will 
also be adopted going forward. 
Chair evaluation
The Chair was considered to have the respect of his Board colleagues 
who all feel he had led the Board very well through a year of change, 
and is leading the Board to focus on the right areas and issues. His 
accessibility and support were highly valued and he was considered 
to bring a wealth of relevant knowledge which he is able to deploy 
in a strategic way in the context of the challenges Shell is facing.
Governance
Board evaluation
153 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Board Review  
process
Note: The below activities 
were undertaken by Jan Hall 
of No.4.
[A] Jan Hall also attended 
the Board discussion. Actions
Results collated, 
reported and 
evaluated
Board discussion [A]Planning, briefing, discussion and observation
Feedback to 
Committee ChairsOne-on one interviews with key individuals
153
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The Board continues to value and recognise the importance of 
engagement and co-operation with our stakeholders. Time is 
dedicated to listening to different stakeholder views and our 
commitment to stakeholder engagement is built upon the 
understanding that knowledge-sharing, widening of experiences 
and adopting a learner mindset will help us achieve our commercial, 
environmental and social objectives.
The Board's and Shell's commitment to public collaboration and 
stakeholder engagement has not wavered despite the challenges 
in recent years due to COVID-19 restrictions. We remain grateful for 
the opportunities that we have had, including the 2022 AGM which 
included physical attendance on a larger scale than since May 2019. 
The Directors have continued to consider stakeholders’ views in Board 
discussions and decision-making, as described on page 125. 
Engagement with our stakeholders also goes beyond the Board
and is continuous. Our broader businesses regularly engage with 
stakeholders throughout the year, and in the build-up to or during many 
Shell projects or activities. This engagement is often governed by 
formulated policies, control frameworks, regulation and legislation.
It may differ by region.
Site visits
The Chair, certain Board committees and Non-executive Directors 
traditionally visit a number of Shell operations and overseas offices.
The visits are designed to provide Directors with:
▪ first-hand insights into portfolio positions; and
▪ opportunities to engage directly with stakeholders including 
employees, partners, communities and NGOs.
In previous years, and as part of the Board evaluation process, the 
Directors have reflected on the use of site visits for improving the 
Board’s oversight of risk and concluded that the best way to determine 
if risks are being properly managed is to visit sites and talk to local 
management. Similarly, some Directors have used site visits as a way to 
monitor and assess culture first-hand. Site visits play an important part 
in the induction process for new Board members and provide good 
opportunities for Board members to get to know each other better. 
Shareholders
The Chair, the Deputy Chair, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief 
Financial Officer and the Executive Vice President Investor Relations 
each meet regularly with major shareholders and report the views 
of such shareholders to the Board. Committee chairs also seek 
engagement with shareholders on significant matters related to their 
areas of responsibility. Over the year and following his appointment 
as Chair, Sir Andrew Mackenzie met with 77 major shareholders, 
including at roadshows. A variety of topics were discussed with the 
Chair including energy transition, available and affordable cleaner 
energy, capital discipline and allocation, returns on investment, cost 
and governance and controls. The Remuneration Committee Chair met 
with 47 shareholders over the course of the year and discussed 2021 
pay outcomes and considered Remuneration Committee policy 
changes ahead of the 2023 AGM.
Shareholders can contact Shell directly via the "Contact us" section of 
the Shell website. This allows investors' questions to be directed to the 
appropriate Shell team that can assist. Shareholders are also able to 
make use of our automated question response tool. Investors can also 
access information via the frequently asked questions section of the 
Shell website.
The Shell website also provides contact details for our registrar, 
Equiniti, shareholder queries, our media team, requests for copies
of the Annual Report, and general customer enquiries. 
The Company’s registrar operates an internet access facility for 
registered shareholders, providing details of their shareholdings. 
Facilities are also provided for shareholders to lodge proxy 
appointments electronically. The Corporate Nominee service, 
facilitated by Equiniti, provides a facility for investors to hold their 
shares in the Company in paperless form.
Stakeholder engagement on AGM resolution
At the 2022 AGM shareholders voted on two climate related 
resolutions: (i) Resolution 20, which was an advisory vote on Shell’s 
Energy Transition Progress – shareholders showed strong endorsement, 
with 79.91% of shareholders which voted casting votes in favour of our 
progress; and (ii) Resolution 21, a shareholder resolution, submitted 
by an organisation called Follow This on behalf of a small group of 
shareholders, requesting certain actions that the Board believes are 
not in the best interest of the Company. This resolution received support 
from 20.29% of shareholders which voted. Shell is aware that some 
shareholders voted in support of both resolutions, despite their 
conflicting content.
In 2022, the Chair, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer 
hosted meetings with some of our large shareholders. These meetings 
covered many topics. Shareholders were asked for specific feedback 
on dividends, share buybacks, predictability in financial results, energy 
macro outlook, business activities in Russia, capital discipline, business 
performance and Powering Progress implementation. 
We recognise and value the importance of stakeholder engagement 
when considering our energy transition progress. The Board is grateful 
for the time and contribution of all those stakeholders who provided 
feedback, and for the overall indications of support for Shell’s strategy. 
Following the AGM, we engaged with our largest shareholders offering 
further opportunities to discuss the progress made against Shell’s 
energy transition strategy and to understand the reasons behind 
various voting decisions. The Chair subsequently had an opportunity 
to engage directly with our large institutional shareholders during his 
roadshow in September 2022.
These discussions showed that our large shareholders that did not
vote in line with the Board recommendation on Resolution 20 and 
Resolution 21 were predominantly focused on Shell’s energy transition 
strategy and not the 2021 progress, which is what Resolution 20 
related to. Some shareholders indicated that societal pressure, 
potential media coverage as well as expectations from beneficial 
owners were reasons for not following the Board’s recommendations. 
Others raised questions related to medium-term targets including a 
desire for a Scope 3 absolute emissions target.
This stakeholder feedback was added to the ongoing internal 
considerations of the Company’s climate targets, along with the 
outcome of the Dutch court case, the Powering Progress strategy
and the commitments that Shell had made within its energy 
transition strategy. 
Governance
Understanding and engaging with our stakeholders
154 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
154
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Engagements in 2022
Information on engagements the Board has held during the year is summarised below. Information on engagement with other stakeholders 
including the workforce is provided on pages 157-158. The way in which stakeholder interests were considered in principal decision-making by the 
Board in 2022 (Section 172 statement) can be found on pages 125-131. Further insight into our engagement with stakeholders can be found 
within our Sustainability Report, scheduled for publication in March 2023. 
 
Remuneration Roadshow – Q1 2022 Engagement
Engagement was 
undertaken before the 
meetings so that the 
Directors were provided 
with understanding and 
insight on particular topics 
of interest.
In March 2022, Neil Carson, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 
presented the 2021 remuneration outcome and 2022 remuneration 
plans to investors. The presentation included summaries on:
▪ reflections on the Company's financial performance, portfolio and 
launch of the Powering Progress Strategy;
▪ 2021 pay decisions; 
▪ changes of Directors; 
▪ remuneration for 2022; and
▪ forward-looking agenda. 
Remuneration 
Committee Chair
Shareholders were provided with 
context and an explanation of the 
Remuneration Committee 
deliberations in arriving at the 2021 
pay outcomes and setting the pay 
framework for 2022 and had the 
opportunity to ask questions and 
provide feedback. 
Remuneration Roadshow – Q4 2022 Engagement
Engagement was 
undertaken before the 
meetings so that the 
Directors were provided 
with understanding and 
insight on particular topics 
of interest.
In November 2022, Neil Carson, Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee, presented the 2023 remuneration considerations to 
investors. The presentation included summaries on: 
▪ the appointment terms for new CFO and CEO;
▪ ongoing review for 2023 remuneration policy proposals; 
▪ 2022 performance update; and
▪ a questions and answers session. 
Remuneration 
Committee Chair
Shareholders had the opportunity 
to understand and discuss the 
Remuneration Committee's 
considerations in developing its 
proposals for the 2023 policy 
update and provided useful 
perspective and feedback. 
Annual ESG Update 2022
Discussion with the Chair 
of the Safety, Environment 
and Sustainability 
Committee to ensure that 
key topics would be 
covered. 
This annual engagement took place in May 2022 in London with 
investors. It included an update on ESG matters of significance, 
including Shell’s progress with its targets to become a net-zero 
emissions business by 2050. 
CEO
CFO
Strategy, Sustainability 
and Corporate 
Relations Director
Any questions requiring follow-up 
were addressed outside the 
presentations. In some cases, 
follow-up meetings were held with 
stakeholders and the Chair of the 
Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee.
Visit to LNG Canada - Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee engagement with external organisation
Discussion with the Chair 
of the Safety, Environment 
and Sustainability 
Committee on key topics 
for inclusion in the visit 
agenda.
The site visit was focused on safety, environment including climate 
change, and broader sustainability. The main elements on the visit 
included a site tour at Kitimat and local community engagements 
with the Chief of the Haisla Nation and Mayor of Kitimat. In 
Vancouver, the Committee held further meetings with LNG Canada 
management and engaged with the Premier of British Columbia and 
relevant Ministers.
Safety, Environment 
and Sustainability 
Committee
The Committee was particularly 
impressed with the major project 
management activity under way at 
LNG Canada and the significant 
work completed to address worker 
welfare, manage environmental 
issues and ensure strong community 
relations. It also noted the strong 
relationships and trust built with key 
local and regional stakeholders 
which have made LNG Canada a 
wanted project.
Nature-Based Solutions - Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee engagement with external stakeholders
Discussion with the Chair 
of the Safety, Environment 
and Sustainability 
Committee to ensure that 
key topics would be 
covered.
The purpose of this engagement with two external stakeholder 
organisations was to assist the Committee in its role of overseeing 
Shell’s strategy and approach to Nature-Based Solutions (NBS).
Safety, Environment 
and Sustainability 
Committee
The overarching main message was 
that credibility remains key to Shell’s 
success with NBS. Shell should 
continue to pursue its strategy, 
execute the strategy well, and be 
sure to communicate effectively.
Engagement before event Event/activity Director attendance Outcome/insight
Governance
Understanding and engaging with our stakeholders continued
155 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
155
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Engagement before event Event/activity Director attendance Outcome/insight
2022 AGM
The Board sought feedback 
from the investor community 
and other stakeholder 
groups prior to the AGM.
This was the first time since the pandemic that large-scale physical 
attendance had taken place at a General Meeting of the Company 
since 2019.
Board Support from shareholders for the 
resolutions proposed by the Board, 
including the advisory vote on the 
Shell Energy Transition Strategy 
progress.
Chair Roadshow
26 meetings were held 
between the Chair of the 
Board and shareholders 
during 2022.
The dialogue was typically strategic in nature and included ESG 
topics as well as the energy transition and business outlook. 
During the first-quarter roadshow, the discussions predominantly 
focused on business activities in Russia following the invasion of 
Ukraine, as well as capital discipline approach.
During the fourth-quarter roadshow, the Chair had an opportunity to 
engage directly with our large institutional shareholders where capital 
discipline was discussed.
Chair Provided the Chair with an 
opportunity to listen to key 
institutional shareholders as well 
as providing Board perspective 
on topics such as governance, 
energy transition, business and 
management performance.
The Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC) meetings
We have a continuing 
dialogue with this group 
throughout the year. 
Moreover, meetings with 
the IIGCC are held with 
the CEO, and another with 
a member of the Executive 
Committee twice a year as 
part of our engagement 
and collaboration with the 
IIGCC and Climate Action 
100+.
In March 2022, the IIGCC members were cordially invited to a bi-
annual dialogue between Shell and Climate Action 100+. The meeting 
was hosted by the CEO, who provided an update on the energy 
situation in Europe and energy transition progress in Shell. 
In August 2022, an Executive Committee member hosted an 
energy transition visit to our Shell Energy and Chemicals Park 
Rotterdam. The meeting included several presentations, 
opportunities to ask questions and a tour around the site. 
CEO 
Projects & 
Technology Director
The meetings were well attended 
and gave investors a good insight 
into both the significant progress 
and scale of the energy transition 
in a key asset in our portfolio. 
We continue to value and appreciate 
the collaboration with Climate Action 
100+ and their large institutional 
investor base.
Audit Committee visits
Engagement prior to the 
visits helped to formulate the 
agenda and refine the areas 
of focus for the respective 
visits.
In 2022, Audit Committee members visited Shell Recharge Fulham 
Road and the Audit Committee also conducted a site visit to the 
London trading floor. Further details are provided on page 169 of the 
Audit Committee Report. 
Audit Committee The visits provided Committee 
members with opportunities to 
engage with a diverse range 
of the workforce.
Director visits
Discussions were held with 
the respective Directors 
ahead of the visit to 
formulate the agenda and 
encourage a natural, open 
dialogue in the group 
sessions.
In May 2022, the Chair, two Directors and an Executive Committee 
member visited the Energy Transition Campus in Amsterdam. The 
Board received a technology organisation and Portfolio overview 
and a Digitalisation innovation at Shell session. The Directors then 
had an informal engagement with select Chief Scientists and Senior 
Principal Science Experts, followed by lab visits. The visit concluded 
with a close-out discussion covering the Technology Portfolio pivot 
towards energy transition. 
In December 2022, one Director visited the Energy Transition Campus 
in Amsterdam. 
Directors The Board gained an insight into 
the development and culture of the 
operations and maintenance teams. 
The use and impact of digitalisation 
tools were highlighted, and the 
future environmental capabilities 
of the site were discussed.
Governance
Understanding and engaging with our stakeholders continued
156 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
156
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The Board recognises merit in the Code's three mechanisms for 
engaging with the workforce. As with all the Code's provisions, boards 
must consider the size and structure of their business, including its 
international scope, and select an approach that most practically 
delivers the underlying spirit and ambition of the Code, even if the 
chosen approach differs from what the Code outlines. The Code does 
note that alternative methods for workforce engagement are supported 
where an explanation is provided.
The Code states that its use of the term "workforce" is not meant to 
align with legal definitions of workforce, employee, worker or similar 
terms. But for a global organisation bound by the laws of more than 
70 countries, blurring the clearly prescribed legal definitions that affect 
complex issues (such as local health, safety, security and environment 
(HSSE) requirements, work contract terms, legal accountability, 
employment rights) or merging two definitions of the same term 
could have a notable impact on the business, its operations and its 
stakeholder relationships (including with suppliers). As a result, Shell 
considers its workforce to be employees of companies in the Shell 
Group. The Board also engages with others outside this group (for 
example, on site visits), and some of this engagement is shared 
on page 154.
Although our reporting and formal engagement focuses predominantly 
on our employees, all individuals working on Shell sites (including Shell 
offices) are required to undertake certain Shell training (for example, 
on matters relating to HSSE and the Code of Conduct). Adhering to the 
Life-Saving Rules and the Code of Conduct compliance obligations is 
included within our contracts with suppliers. The Shell Global Helpline 
is available for all workers to report matters of concern.
For many years, Shell has recognised the importance of engaging with 
its workforce. Engagement is especially important in maintaining strong 
business delivery in volatile times of change. We strive to maintain a 
dialogue between management and our workforce – both directly 
and where appropriate, through employee representative bodies. 
Management regularly engages with the workforce through a range 
of formal and informal channels, including via webcasts and emails 
from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and other senior executives, 
webcasts, town halls, team meetings, face-to-face gatherings, 
interviews with Senior Management, internal social platforms and 
online publications via our intranet.
The Board considers effective engagement a key element of its 
understanding of the Company’s ability to create value, because it 
recognises that our people are our greatest asset. Workforce views 
can help inform the Board on matters such as operational effectiveness, 
Shell culture, diversity, equity and inclusion, identifying risk and 
developing and delivering strategy.
The Board considers the current workforce engagement approach 
effective. The information provided in the following table gives 
examples of various methods of Board engagement.
 
Board’s direct engagements with the workforce
Informal engagement – Board
Nomination and Succession Committee members met with various senior leaders 
and high-potential individuals throughout the year. 
Off-site visits
People engagements during Board and/or meetings off site. 
Meeting talent/leadership teams.
The Chair engaging with various individuals.
Through these more formal engagements, the Chair and other Non-executive 
Directors (either individually or with their Committees) have deepened their 
understanding of how the Company’s purpose, strategy and values are 
embedded in particular businesses, sites and countries. This gives insight into 
progress made, risks and opportunities. The benefits are mutual. The Board 
obtains direct insight into local business operations and projects, and local 
strengths and challenges. Our people have a chance to better understand the 
Board and to provide direct feedback on topics of importance to them, their 
business or function and their location.
Employee network and related sessions
The Nomination and Succession Committee was joined by representatives 
(which included the Chair) of the UK enABLE network to discuss enablement and 
disability inclusion. The discussion covered Shell's progress and achievements 
against the building blocks through which we drive our DE&I agenda, including 
communication, policies and processes (e.g., workplace accessibility), and 
learning and development. It was noted that while we have a solid support 
infrastructure the discussion recognised the role of the team and the line 
manager of persons with disabilities in ensuring that the support resources 
are utilised in combination with the inclusive behaviours required to make 
the work environment barrier-free.
Employee representatives and related sessions 
In June, the Chair met with representatives of the Shell European Workers 
Council (SEWC) at Shell Centre London, as part of SEWC’s annual plenary 
meeting. 
The objective of the informal engagement was to discuss Shell’s Powering 
Progress strategy, the investor perspective on the Energy Transition, Diversity, 
Equity, Inclusion, and the Future of Work for the 15 countries in SEWC’s domain.
The two-way dialogue offered participants the opportunity to ask questions and 
provide feedback. Feedback received indicates the SEWC delegates enjoyed 
the informal engagement with the Chairman of Shell’s Board of Directors. 
Shell Singapore
The Board and Executive Committee (EC) visited Shell Singapore in June for 
their annual off-site visit and Board meeting. The visit provided significant 
opportunities for workforce engagement over three days.
On the first day, the Board and EC hosted a dinner for a cross-section of 
approximately 140 employees, representing all businesses and functions and 
with approximately a third of employees in management roles, a third emerging 
talent and a third frontline employees. Feedback received after the event 
suggested that employees enjoyed the opportunity to engage informally 
with the Board and EC members.
On the second day, the Board and EC visited the Shell Energy and Chemicals 
Park Singapore on Bukom Island. During the visit to the facility, they met with 
23 site leaders and presenters before a small group tour of key assets led by 
37 employees at the site, giving an opportunity for workforce engagement in 
the field. Thereafter, the Board and EC met in person with four leaders from 
across the Upstream business globally, rotating through four booth sessions 
in small groups.
Lastly, on the third day, over lunch, the Board and EC met 13 Country Chairs 
and Corporate Relations professionals from across the Asia-Pacific region.
Shell United Kingdom
Board members including the Chair, CEO and CFO attended the Powering 
Progress UK Summit in June 2022 - a hybrid engagement for all UK staff - 
with the CEO and CFO participating in a panel discussion and question 
and answer session respectively. Together with the Board, employees 
also got the opportunity to hear directly from external partners.
Governance
Workforce engagement
157 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
157
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Formal reports and information updates to the Board
Shell People Survey (anonymous survey facilitated externally)
The Board was provided with an update on the outcomes and employee 
engagement levels and the quality and resilience of leadership across Shell’s 
workforce. As well as a broad range of subjects, the Board was informed of 
principal metrics, with particular focus on rewards, working conditions/workload 
and reputation.
The Board considers the Shell People Survey to be one of its principal tools for 
measuring employee engagement, motivation, affiliation and commitment to 
Shell. It provides insights into employee views and has a consistently high 
response rate. In 2022 the response rate was 87%, (up 3.4% from 2021) which 
is the highest ever. The Board also considers this engagement to understand, 
for example, how Shell is using the survey outcomes in: i) data analytics, for 
example, to identify potential correlative relationships between employee 
engagement and safety or ethics and compliance incidents; and ii) 
strengthening Company culture and values.
Senior Succession and Resourcing Review
The annual Senior Succession and Resourcing Review focused on the strength 
of senior leadership and plans for its development and succession, while 
highlighting the breadth, depth and diversity of its pipeline, the developing 
profile of the leadership cadre, and recruitment and attrition levels.
The Nomination and Succession Committee noted the effectiveness of 
succession planning, the impact of its associated execution, and the 
professional, data-driven, integrated approach to leadership and leadership 
development. It welcomed the continued focus on performance management, 
proactive management of Shell’s talent pipeline, and the focus on advancing 
Shell’s diversity agenda with increased attention on gender, race, LGBT+ and 
disabilities. 
Assessment of key trends and material incidents
Presented by Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. This is based on the 
established channels for staff and others to file complaints or report on 
suspected breaches in relation to the Shell General Business Principles (SGBP), 
the Code of Conduct or any breaches of laws or regulations, including 
accounting control and auditing concerns.
The update covers Shell employees and our wider stakeholder base. The Board 
(also via the Audit Committee and the Safety, Environment and Sustainability 
Committee) obtains insight into incidents and reporting levels and remediation. 
These provide indicators of conduct risks and, together with the related Board 
reports noted below, suggest the strength of embedding and awareness of 
the Code of Conduct and SGBP obligations and employees’ comfort levels 
in raising incidents.
Risks
The Board (also via the Audit Committee and the Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee) reviews strategic, operational and conduct/culture 
risks during the year to assess current business activities against risk appetite.
Organisational culture
The Board has continued its discussion on the Powering Progress strategy, 
including powering lives. The Board also focused on diversity, equity and 
inclusion commitments.
Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Report
Data and insights include information from the Global Helpline, the Shell 
Ethics and Compliance organisation and the Shell People Survey. The Safety, 
Environment and Sustainability Committee continues to strongly support the 
work of the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, including the efforts to ensure 
a safe working environment where staff feel confident to raise any concerns in 
good faith.
The Audit Committee is kept updated when matters highlighted through the 
Global Helpline are investigated. The Audit Committee is also informed about 
the associated remediation. For more information see page 174 of the Audit 
Committee Report.
Assurance activities
Assurance activities, including items raised by businesses and functions (through 
the Group Assurance Letters process) and assurance (from Internal Audit, HSSE, 
Ethics and Compliance, Reserves Assurance and Reporting), provide additional 
evidence to the Board of the commitment to high standards of risk management 
and internal control. The assurance activities ensure that work can be done 
safely, within regulatory frameworks.
The information provided within these reports further supports the Board’s 
annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk management 
and internal control and feeds into the Group scorecard, against which staff 
bonuses are calculated.
The Shell Control Framework
Significant HSSE, Ethics and Compliance, and more broadly, business control 
incidents are brought to the attention of Senior Management and the Board 
through regular reporting.
During these discussions the Board seeks to learn more from incidents and 
ensure that the business continues to drive safety performance. 
Governance
Workforce engagement continued
158 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
158
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Focus areas for 2022
▪ Non-executive Director and Executive Committee succession;
▪ Continued talent engagements with key staff and succession 
candidates; and
▪ Maintain proactive oversight over Shell's ambition to become 
one of the most diverse and inclusive organisations in the 
world.
 
Priorities for 2023
▪ Support the changes proposed from the 2022 Board/
Committee evaluation;
▪ Non-executive Director and Executive Committee succession;
▪ Continued talent engagements with key staff and succession 
candidates; and
▪ Support an increased level of disclosure with regard to Shell’s 
diversity targets and maintain proactive oversight over Shell's 
ambition to become one of the most diverse and inclusive 
organisations in the world.
Sir Andrew Mackenzie 
Chair of the Nomination and Succession Committee
Committee membership and attendance for 2022
Committee 
member Member since
Maximum 
possible 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
% of 
meetings 
attended
Sir Andrew 
Mackenzie 
(Chair of the 
Committee)
October 1, 
2020 5 5 100%
Dick Boer May 19, 2021 5 5 100%
Ann
Godbehere
October 27, 
2021 5 5 100%
Euleen Goh July 1, 2019 5 5 100%
Purpose
The Nomination and Succession Committee (the "Committee") leads 
the process for appointments to the Board and Senior Management 
[A] positions, ensures plans are in place for orderly, well-planned 
succession, and oversees the development of a diverse succession 
pipeline of candidates. It also reviews the Company’s policy and 
strategy on diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I), and monitors the 
effectiveness of these initiatives. It makes recommendations to the 
Board on corporate governance guidelines, as referred to in the 
Chair’s introduction.
[A] "Senior Management" refers to the Executive Committee and the Company Secretary.
Talent management and succession
The Committee is fully engaged with the end-to-end talent management 
and senior succession planning approach that is deployed within Shell. 
It plays a key role in senior succession and resourcing. Retaining in-
depth knowledge of the individuals within the talent pipeline is a 
Committee priority. The Committee makes time to personally meet and 
engage with numerous individuals within the pipeline. The Committee’s 
oversight and input extend from recruitment to leadership identification 
and from leadership development to leadership appointment, all of 
which are underpinned by clearly articulated talent priorities and a 
commitment to advancing diversity, equity and inclusion across Shell.
The Committee manages Board and Senior Management succession 
under a structured, proactive methodology. The processes have clear 
and agreed selection principles for short-, medium- and long-term 
succession and are aligned with Shell's strategic priorities.
For Non-executive Director succession, the Committee continues to 
follow its Principles for the Strategic Composition of the Board, adding 
factors as they evolve. These principles function much like a policy and 
include both quantitative and qualitative principles, considering:
▪ the overall aspired Board composition and diversity of gender, race 
and ethnicity, nationality, background, experience and desired skill 
sets that align with the Company’s strategy and purpose; and
▪ the values, attitudes, and behaviours expected of Directors.
Governance
Nomination and Succession Committee
Sir Andrew 
Mackenzie Dick Boer
Euleen Goh
 Ann 
Godbehere
159
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Over the coming year the Principles for the Strategic Composition of 
the Board will be reviewed and the Committee will support the business 
in aligning with its Powering Progress diversity ambition, of becoming 
one of the most diverse and inclusive organisations in the world, into 
firmer targets for the Board and Senior Management. In addition, 
Shell’s external reporting against these targets will be enhanced. 
Shell’s Board and Senior Management diversity metrics are already 
well positioned against the new UK Listing Rules requirements. 
This information can be found on page 140.
For Senior Management succession, the selection principles include 
process-specific elements, such as a clear and proactive approach to 
identifying and developing succession candidates. The principles also 
outline the long-term structured nature of the succession planning 
process. There is also great focus on ensuring that the principles reflect 
the leadership qualities required for future business success and that 
they advance the progress of diversity in all its forms.
Senior Management principles feature in the Committee’s review of the 
succession plans which occurs in every Committee meeting. Using the 
principles, the Committee implements any changes through a well-
defined and diligent process with overall Board engagement. The 
Committee agrees on candidate profiles and meets prospective 
candidates well ahead of any selection decision being necessary. 
It also engages the Board early in the process to ensure all Directors 
have an opportunity to meet and assess prospective candidates. 
Consequently, some of the leaders whom the Committee and Board 
have engaged with extensively in the past are now members of the 
Board or the Executive Committee.
In 2022, the Committee undertook its annual in-depth look at the 
status and succession plans for Senior Management within Shell 
and reviewed the talent pipeline in line with the business outlook. The 
engagement focused on the organisational health of our workforce; 
Powering Lives (covering areas such as enablement and disability and 
LGBT+ inclusion, gender diversity in leadership roles, nationality and 
ethnicity and race representation), the depth and breadth of the senior 
executive leadership pipeline including progress in enhancing diversity, 
the skills, behaviours and development support required for future 
success, and an evolving outlook on senior executive roles. Following 
the Committee’s review, the findings were reported to the Board.
 
Senior Succession and Resourcing Review
Diversity of leadership
The Committee recognises that continuing to improve all types of 
diversity at each level of the Shell Group is crucial. Shell aims to be an 
inclusive workplace where everyone feels valued and respected and 
has a strong sense of belonging. The Committee’s review of diversity 
objectives and strategies for the Shell Group as a whole also monitors 
the impact of diversity and inclusion initiatives. 
In February 2021, Shell published its aspirations for diversity, equity 
and inclusion under the "Powering Lives" goal, with a focus on four 
areas of gender, race and ethnicity, LGBT+ and disability inclusion. 
When looking at our progress against our ambitions, female 
representation has steadily improved in recent years. Among 
experienced recruitment in 2022, Shell companies recruited 
40% 
females, and among graduates 49%. Female representation in the 
top 1,250 roles ("Senior Leadership" positions) has strengthened by 1% 
during 2022 to 30.4%, and we continue to progress towards our aim 
of achieving 35% female senior leadership representation by 2025. 
Nationality diversity, such as Asian and American talent, continues to 
be managed in accordance with the business outlook and we have a 
strong focus on progressing race and ethnic minority representation, 
beginning in the UK and the USA and followed by the Netherlands. 
The representation of people of colour among Shell's senior leaders in 
the USA has been actively tracked for many years. It stood at 26% at 
the end of 2022, compared with 17.3% in 2016. In the UK, race and 
ethnic minority representation among senior leaders was 18.2% [A].
[A] As ethnicity declaration is voluntary, our ethnicity declaration rate is not 100% and all 
calculations are based on a declaration rate of 71.5%. The 28.5% of our workforce who 
have not provided data or chosen not to declare their ethnicity were not included in our 
calculations.
Governance
Nomination and Succession Committee continued
160 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Executive Summary
 Organisational health
 Powering Lives
 Senior Executive leadership
 Senior Executive outlook
 Future focus
Senior Executive Leadership
 Senior Executive jobs & pipeline
 Footprint & business outlook
 Population & demographics
 Senior Executive dynamics
 2021/2022 joiners & leavers
 Country Chairs
 Performance, reward, recognition
 Our mindset & behaviours
Senior Executive Outlook
 Roles with a succession risk
 Projected changes 
 Planned promotions, leavers
Organisational Health
 Evolution of total workforce mix
 Shell direct FTE development & employee cost
 FTE growth R&ES, T&S and ITD
 Expatriation
 Shell Business Operations (SBO) development
 Contingent
 Spans and layers
 Performance and reward
 Resourcing incl. graduate recruitment
 Voluntary resignations
 Organisational employee engagement
Powering Lives
 Powering Lives
 Enablement and disability
 LGBT+
 Gender diversity 
 Nationality diversity
 US People of Color (POC) representation
 UK Ethnicity and Race representation
 US talent pipeline
 Asian talent pipeline
160
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Senior Leadership is a Shell-specific measure and different from 
that which we are required to report under the Code, being female 
representation in Senior Management and their direct reports, 
where the percentage is 28%.
Although the Committee monitors Shell’s organisational diversity, 
equity and inclusion strategies and initiatives, it also holds itself 
accountable for the Board’s own diversity and inclusion. By the 
end of 2020, the Board’s diverse composition met the Hampton 
Alexander and Parker Reviews’ objectives by reflecting 38.5% female 
representation with one person meeting BAME criteria. Following the 
2021 AGM, 50% of the Board were women. However, in October 
2022 we announced the appointment of Cyrus Taraporevala effective 
March 2, 2023 and in February 2023 we announced further changes 
to the Board, with the retirement of Euleen Goh and Martina Hund-
Mejean and the appointments of Leena Srivastava and Sir Charles 
Roxburgh effective March 13, 2023. Therefore, following the 2023 
AGM, scheduled for May 2023, if all directors proposed for 
appointment/reappointment are approved by shareholders, female 
representation will be 42%, and the Board will exceed the BAME 
criteria, with three members from an ethnic minority background.
More information on diversity, equity and inclusion in Shell is provided in the 
Powering lives section on pages 117.
The People Strategy and diversity, equity and inclusion
During the year, the Committee continued an in-depth examination into 
our approach on diversity, equity and inclusion building on the deep 
dive held on LGBT+ inclusion and extending this into disability and 
enablement inclusion, with participation from both employee 
representatives and Human Resources professionals. This followed 
the format of the examination of the Shell People Strategy that the 
Committee undertook in 2020, which placed particular emphasis on 
our Mindset and behaviours. The Committee will be conducting further 
engagements in 2023 to maintain proactive oversight over Shell's 
ambition to become one of the most diverse and inclusive organisations 
in the world, where everyone feels valued and respected, with a focus 
on race and ethnicity and gender representation.
 Committee activity
In addition to its considerations regarding succession (some of 
which were in the early part of 2023), the Committee made 
recommendations on corporate governance guidelines, monitored 
compliance with corporate governance requirements and made 
recommendations on corporate governance-related disclosures. 
The Committee continues to monitor and review this area, considering 
whether and how current Company governance matters should be 
strengthened. Further insight on some of the Committee’s areas of 
consideration in 2022 is provided below.
 
Topic of discussion/example of Board activity
Succession [A]
Recommendation ▪ Appointment of Sinead Gorman (CFO), Wael 
Sawan (CEO), Cyrus Taraporevala (NED), Sir 
Charles Roxburgh (NED) and Leena Srivastava 
(NED).
▪ Appointment of Dick Boer as Deputy Chair/Senior 
Independent Director.
▪ Changes to the composition of the Board 
Committees.
Review and oversight ▪ Shell Senior Succession and Resourcing Review 
and ongoing succession planning.
▪ Supported the appointment of Ed Daniels to the 
Executive Committee as Strategy, Sustainability 
and Corporate Relations Director.
Oversight ▪ Shell diversity, equity and inclusion. 
Engagement ▪ Talent engagements.
Topic of discussion/example of Board activity
Talent overview and senior succession review
Shell Senior Succession 
and Resourcing Review 
covering Executive 
Director and Executive 
Committee (EC) 
succession, EC direct 
reports, the senior 
executive group and the 
overall talent pipeline
▪ Enhanced insight on Shell talent and 
future leaders.
▪ Assurance of robust succession and 
contingency plans.
 
Topic of discussion/example of Board activity
Board membership and other appointments
Directors’ tenure, external 
commitments, conflicts of 
interests and succession 
planning
▪ Non-executive Director appointments and 
changes to Committee membership.
 
Topic of discussion/example of Board activity
Governance
Governing the Board 
and its committees
Regulation, legislation 
and other governance-
related guidance
▪ Reviewed its Terms of Reference, and the Terms 
of Reference for other Board committees and the 
Matters Reserved for the Board.
Shell plc matters ▪ Considered any potential conflicts of interest and 
the independence of the Non-executive Directors.
▪ Review of additional external appointments 
requested by Directors, with specific focus on the 
time allocated to all commitments. For Executive 
Directors, the benefit/relevance to the business of 
the Director undertaking the additional role is also 
a key consideration.
▪ Determined the process and the provider for the 
2022 external Board Evaluation (see page 153 for 
an overview of the process and the outcome of the 
evaluation).
[A] The Committee was assisted during the year by Russell Reynolds Associates ("Russell Reynolds"), an external global search company whose main role was to propose suitable candidates. 
Russell Reynolds does not have any connection with the Company other than that of search consultants. The Chair does not participate in discussions regarding his own succession. Russell 
Reynolds is a signatory to The Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, which aims to improve board diversity.
Governance
Nomination and Succession Committee continued
161 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
161
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Board succession
During the year the Committee’s robust and effective succession planning supported the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer 
(Sinead Gorman), who joined the board on April 1, 2022, and a new Chief Executive Officer (Wael Sawan), who joined the Board on 
January 1, 2023. Some of the Committee activities in supporting these appointments are outlined below.
The Committee undertakes comprehensive engagement to understand who the candidates are for senior roles, what personally 
drives them and how they will ensure Shell achieves its strategic ambitions. 
The Committee plans well in advance for succession and reviews plans regularly. Succession planning is a crucial, ongoing 
consideration and not just an area of focus when a Director is nearing the end of their tenure. The Board oversees a rigorous and 
sophisticated Shell succession planning process in which selection is the final step of a considered well-planned process.
For Executive Director and Executive Committee appointments, the Committee has set a structured process:
▪ Before any potential decision on resourcing, it explicitly describes the requirements of the role and the candidate profile.
▪ By working in a planned consistent manner, last-minute surprises are avoided and well-considered decisions are made in line with 
evolving business requirements. We saw this in action in 2022.
▪ It also plans for the unexpected and maintains a list of candidates capable of stepping into senior roles to provide cover if necessary.
The Committee spends time getting to know the candidates to ensure that the pipeline is robust, diverse and adaptive. The 
Committee ensures it has visibility of today’s and tomorrow’s leaders. Over the last few years, the Committee has met many leaders and 
had extensive engagements with each of them. Some of these leaders now sit on the EC, others were appointed to the Board (Sinead 
Gorman and Wael Sawan).
The Committee engages across the Executive talent pipeline to ensure it interacts with and becomes familiar with talent at different 
levels of the organisation; for example, on a regular basis informal engagements are held with employees from a range of businesses, 
functions and backgrounds prior to a Board meeting. Not only does this engagement support senior succession, it also provides a helpful 
element of the Committee’s workforce engagement.
The Board is proud that candidates for the most senior leadership roles have primarily come from within the business, proving that the 
leadership development and succession process remains effective.
CEO succession
Although the process was initially led by the Nomination and Succession Committee, the Board was fully engaged throughout the process. 
All Non-executive Directors provided input into the candidate profile and role specification and outlined what they saw as the challenges 
facing the business over the next five to ten years. They helped map out leadership and personal qualities needed to be effective, ranked 
these in order of importance and shared their views of the current culture within the business. Throughout the process the Board was 
supported by Shell Human Resources executives in tandem with external professional executive assessment and search support.
Both internal and external candidates were considered for the position. The list of preferred qualities and functional focus elements 
included leadership experience at a large, complex global business; leadership/track record of substantial transformation/change; strong 
customer orientation; from an industry with a complex supply chain (industrial, engineering or technology); experience of managing 
substantial stakeholder pressure (with differing views); understanding of large capital projects (not necessarily oil and gas sector), along 
with certain character requirements.
Updates were provided to the Board and potential candidates discussed. In the final stages of the process, the potential candidates 
presented to, and were interviewed by, the full Board.
In Wael Sawan we believe that we have found the required qualities and more. Wael Sawan is an exceptional leader, with all the 
qualities needed to drive Shell safely and profitably through its next phase of transition and growth. His track record of commercial, 
operational and transformational success reflects not only his broad, deep experience and understanding of Shell and the energy sector, 
but also his strategic clarity. He combines these qualities with a passion for people, which enables him to get the best from those around 
him. The outcome of the Board’s managed succession process resulted both in the appointment of an outstanding CEO and proved the 
strength and depth of Shell’s leadership talent.
Governance
Nomination and Succession Committee continued
162 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
162
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Focus areas for 2022
▪ Safety and environmental performance;
▪ Assurance programme;
▪ Progress against energy transition targets;
▪ Non-financial elements of Shell's strategy; and
▪ Sustainability metrics for remuneration. 
 
Priorities for 2023
▪ Shell's sustainability performance;
▪ Net Zero Emissions;
▪ Respecting Nature;
▪ Powering Lives; and
▪ Emerging non-financial risks.
“The SESCo focused on Shell’s safety
and environmental performance and 
assurance programme in 2022, as well
as targets for the energy transition and 
sustainability elements of Shell’s Powering 
Progress strategy.“
Catherine J. Hughes
Chair of the Safety, Environment and Sustainability 
Committee
 
Committee membership and attendance for 2022
Committee 
member Member since
Maximum 
possible 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
% of 
meetings 
attended
Catherine
J. Hughes
(Chair)
November 1, 
2017 5 5 100%
Neil Carson 
OBE June 1, 2019 5 5 100%
Bram Schot October 1, 
2020 5 4 80%
Jane Holl Lute May 24, 2022 3 3 100%
Purpose
The Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee (SESCo) assists 
the Board in reviewing the policies, practices, targets and performance 
of Shell, primarily with respect to safety, environment including climate 
change, and broader sustainability.
Overview
The Committee meets regularly to review and discuss a wide range 
of important topics. These include the safe condition and responsible 
operation of Shell’s assets and facilities, environmental protection and 
greenhouse gas emissions, any major incidents that impact or had the 
potential to impact safety and environmental performance, and 
progress towards meeting Shell’s energy transition targets. 
The Committee endorses the areas of the Shell annual assurance 
plan that are relevant to its Terms of Reference, which include Safety, 
Environment, Asset Management, and the non-financial elements 
of Shell's Powering Progress strategy. The Committee also reviews 
the execution of these areas of the assurance plan and discusses 
audit outcomes. 
The Committee assesses Shell’s overall sustainability performance 
and provides input to Shell's annual reporting and disclosures on 
sustainability. It also advises the Remuneration Committee on metrics 
relating to safety and energy transition that apply to the Executive 
Committee annual scorecard and Long-term Incentive Plan.
Governance
Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee
Catherine 
J. Hughes
Bram Schot
Neil Carson 
OBE
Jane Holl Lute
163
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The Committee reviews and considers external stakeholder 
perspectives in relation to Shell’s business, as well as how Shell 
addresses issues of public concern that could affect its reputation 
and licence to operate. 
In line with the strategic importance of the Committee's agenda, 
the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer 
of Shell plc regularly attend Committee meetings for discussions on 
specific topics.
Shell’s Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Committee hold 
overall accountability for sustainability within Shell. 
Activities
During 2022, the Committee focused on the areas of greatest 
operational and strategic importance to Shell, in line with its Terms 
of Reference. This allowed the Committee to oversee effectively 
and thoroughly the practices and performance of the Company 
with respect to safety, environment including climate change, 
and broader sustainability.
The topics discussed in particular depth by the Committee included 
personal and process safety, a range of environmental topics, Shell’s 
energy transition targets, and remuneration metrics. The Committee 
also reviewed in detail Shell companies’ operations and the challenges 
faced in Nigeria. 
The Committee reviewed the progress made against the non-financial 
elements of Shell’s Powering Progress strategy, including progress 
against the targets and commitments under the goals of Net-Zero 
Emissions, Respecting Nature, and Powering Lives. The Committee 
reviewed in particular the sustainability issues associated with Shell’s 
renewable energy businesses.
The Committee believes the Powering Progress strategy demonstrates 
Shell’s determination to play its full role in the energy transition. 
The Committee has conducted in-depth discussions with senior 
management about how Shell’s energy transition targets for the near 
term, medium term and longer term will be met through a combination 
of developing low-carbon energy businesses, transforming existing 
assets into energy and chemicals parks, carbon abatement 
programmes, portfolio actions, the use of nature-based solutions, 
and the development of carbon capture, utilisation, and storage. 
The Committee reviewed Shell’s Energy Transition Progress Report 
in depth before its publication.
Following the Committee's review of remuneration with management, 
the safety and energy transition metrics and targets have been 
enhanced for the 2023 Executive Committee annual scorecard 
and the 2023-25 Long-term Incentive Plan in order to drive further 
performance improvements.
The Committee also reviewed wider matters of public concern during 
2022 such as plastic waste, methane emissions, the flaring of natural 
gas, water scarcity, just transition, human rights, diversity and inclusion, 
and access to energy in low- and middle-income countries. The 
Committee engaged with external stakeholders on the topic of nature-
based solutions and gained valuable insights on how Shell’s approach 
is perceived. 
The Committee continued to monitor Shell’s approach to the health 
of its employees and contractors, in terms of mental well-being in 
particular. The Committee also continued to review the security risks 
faced by Shell and how these risks are being proactively managed. 
The Committee Chair held meetings throughout the year with senior 
leaders to discuss specific topics, including safety performance and 
enhanced assurance protocols. 
For further details on SESCo and how Shell manages sustainability see 
www.shell.com
Site visits
The Committee visited the LNG Canada joint-venture project in 
British Columbia, Canada, in September 2022. The visit included a site 
tour at Kitimat, meetings with staff, and local community engagements 
with the Chief of the Haisla Nation and Mayor of Kitimat. In 
Vancouver, the Committee held further meetings with LNG Canada 
management and engaged with the Premier of British Columbia and 
relevant Ministers.
Activities performed Frequency
Review Shell’s practices and performance relating to safety, including the safe condition and responsible operation of Shell’s assets (Shell-
operated ventures and non-Shell-operated ventures), with a focus on both employees and contractors. Every meeting
Review Shell’s practices and performance relating to environment, including environmental protection and greenhouse gas emissions. Every meeting
Review any major incidents that impact, or had the potential to impact, Shell’s safety and environmental performance. As necessary
Review progress towards meeting the Powering Progress ambitions, including its energy transition targets for net carbon intensity and becoming a 
net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. Most meetings
Endorse Shell’s annual assurance plan for Health, Security, Safety, Environment and Social Performance (HSSE & SP) and Asset Management. Annually
Review execution of Shell’s assurance plan and discuss audit outcomes, and review relevant findings from Shell’s broader internal audit and 
investigations programme. Most meetings
Assess Shell’s overall sustainability performance and provide input to Shell’s annual reporting and disclosures regarding sustainability. Annually
Review how Shell addresses major issues of public concern that could affect Shell’s reputation and licence to operate. Most meetings
Review and consider external stakeholder perspectives regarding Shell’s business. Periodically
Advise the Remuneration Committee on metrics relating to safety and energy transition. Annually
Governance
Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee continued
164 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
164
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to present our Audit Committee Report for 2022. 
I begin this report by thanking Gerrit Zalm and Jane Holl Lute for their 
contributions as members of the Audit Committee (AC) since March 
2017 and July 2021, respectively. I am also delighted to welcome 
new Committee member, Cyrus Taraporevala, who joined the AC on 
March 2, 2023. I also welcome Sir Charles Roxburgh, who has been 
appointed as a Non-executive Director of Shell plc, effective March 13, 
2023 and will become a member of the AC as of the same date. 
The AC's primary role is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities in areas such as the integrity of financial reporting, the 
effectiveness of the risk management framework and system of internal 
controls as well as consideration of ethics and compliance matters. 
We are responsible for assessing the quality of the audit performed by, 
and the independence and objectivity of, the external auditor. The AC 
also makes a recommendation to the Board on the appointment or 
reappointment of the external auditor. In addition, we oversee the 
work and quality of the internal audit function.
Our work programme over the course of a year focuses on a variety of 
matters that involve a high degree of judgement and/or are significant 
to Shell’s consolidated financial statements. We review with 
management the sources of estimation uncertainty and other key 
assumptions in light of economic and market uncertainty, volatility, 
climate risk and the energy transition and evolving stakeholder 
expectations. In addition, we consider the robustness of the risk 
and internal control framework, results of internal control testing 
performed throughout the year and remediation activities. 
Ann Godbehere
Chair of the Audit Committee
Topics addressed in 2022 included the impact of Russia's invasion 
of Ukraine and Shell's announced withdrawal from Russian oil and 
gas activities; the potential impacts of climate change on Shell’s 
consolidated financial statements; deferred taxes and tax exposures; 
the impact on tax balances and disclosures as a result of new windfall 
and minimum taxes around the world; significant portfolio 
developments; litigation; impairment trigger assessments; charges 
and reversals; accounting for complex contracts; dividend distribution 
capacity; and mark-to-market derivatives accounting, including the 
impact of volatile gas and power markets. 
We received briefings from the Chief Internal Auditor on the 
effectiveness of Shell’s risk management and internal control system 
and on the outcomes of significant audits and notable control matters. 
The impacts of climate change and the energy transition continue to 
touch on many aspects of the AC’s work. The AC’s focus areas for 
2022 included several discussions on the financial statement impacts of 
climate change and energy transition, and the increasing expectations 
around expanded climate-related information. In order to obtain 
feedback to continuously improve carbon-related disclosures, 
management engaged with Sarasin & Partners and Carbon Tracker 
during 2022. The quarterly reports reviewed by the AC from Ernst & 
Young LLP (EY), our external auditor, and the Chief Internal Auditor, 
also continued to include specific steps they have taken to incorporate 
climate change considerations into all facets of their work.
The AC commends Shell’s financial reporting team on feedback 
received from the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) which carried out 
a limited scope review [A] of TCFD disclosures and the disclosures of 
climate in Shell's financial statements for the year ended December 31, 
2021. The FRC confirmed that, based on their review, there were no 
questions or queries which they wished to raise at this stage. In its 
"CRR Thematic review of TCFD disclosures and climate in the financial 
statements" published in July 2022, the FRC referenced what they 
regarded as better practice disclosures with a number of examples 
from Shell’s 2021 Annual Report.
[A] The FRC noted that their review is based solely on the annual report and accounts and 
does not benefit from detailed knowledge of Shell’s business or an understanding of the 
underlying transactions entered into, but that it is, however, conducted by staff of the FRC 
who have an understanding of the relevant legal and accounting framework.
The AC, recognising the ever-evolving nature of climate change risks 
and responses, concluded that climate change has been appropriately 
considered by management in key judgements and estimates and 
agreed with the disclosure made by management.
“The primary role of the AC is to assist 
the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities in areas such as the integrity 
of financial reporting, the effectiveness of 
the risk management framework and system 
of internal controls as well as consideration 
of ethics and compliance matters.“
Governance
Audit Committee Report
165
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The AC was briefed on Shell's Carbon Management Framework and 
its Carbon Reporting Committee, including future priorities. The AC 
was also briefed in relation to the Shell Performance Framework 
which is scheduled to replace and enhance the current Shell Control 
Framework. Other focus topics for 2022 included non-operated 
ventures controls and governance.
As part of its oversight of compliance with applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements, including monitoring ethics and compliance 
risks, the AC discussed with the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer 
activities undertaken in the ethics and compliance programme related 
to conduct risks stemming from Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and steps 
taken to manage those risks. 
During the year, AC members visited Shell Recharge Fulham Road, our 
first UK all-electric vehicle charging hub and the AC also conducted a 
site visit to Shell's London trading floor. As part of Board Strategy Days, 
AC members also visited Singapore in June 2022 (see Board Strategy 
Days on page 150). During 2023, the AC plan to visit a number of 
operations in the USA, including Shell Polymers Monaca and Shell 
Convent. These site visits deepen the AC’s understanding of the risks 
and opportunities arising as well as its understanding of how the 
Company’s Powering Progress strategy is being implemented. 
On a final note, the AC acknowledges the financial reporting team’s 
substantial work during 2022. The AC conveys its gratitude and 
appreciation for their strong commitment and dedication. 
Ann Godbehere 
Chair of the Audit Committee
March 8, 2023
 
Focus areas for 2022
▪ Impact of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and Shell's withdrawal 
from Russian oil and gas activities;
▪ Non-operated ventures controls and governance; 
▪ Climate change and energy transition, including impact on 
financial statements as well as sustainability and non-financial 
reporting;
▪ Resegmentation;
▪ Carbon management, including GHG reporting and 
assurance framework;
▪ Trading and Supply; and
▪ Introduction and implementation of windfall taxes such as the 
EU solidarity contribution and Energy Profits Levy in the UK.
 
Priorities for 2023
▪ Risk management, including cyber security; 
▪ Regulatory developments, mainly those in relation to climate 
change and energy transition;
▪ Trading and Supply; and
▪ Shell Performance Framework.
Committee membership and attendance for 2022
During 2022, the members and meeting attendance of the AC 
were as follows: 
Committee 
member Member since
Maximum 
possible 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
% of 
meetings 
attended
Ann Godbehere 
(Chair) May 23, 2018 6 6 100%
Dick Boer May 20, 2020 6 6 100%
Jane Holl Lute [B] July 28, 2021 3 3 100%
Martina Hund-
Mejean May 20, 2020 6 6 100%
Gerrit Zalm [C] March 8, 2017 3 3 100%
[A] In addition to the six meetings, as part of its activities, the AC conducted two 
deep-dive sessions, a site visit to the London trading floor and members of the AC 
also visited Shell Recharge Fulham Road.
[B] Jane Holl Lute stepped down from the AC with effect from May 24, 2022.
[C] Gerrit Zalm retired from the Board and the AC with effect from May 24, 2022.
Governance
Audit Committee Report continued
Dick BoerAnn 
Godbehere
Martina  
Hund-Mejean
166
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

All AC members are financially literate, independent Non-executive 
Directors. In respect of the year ended December 31, 2022, for the 
purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code, Ann Godbehere 
and Martina Hund-Mejean both qualify as: a person with "recent 
and relevant financial experience" and competence in accounting, 
and, for the purposes of US securities laws, an "audit committee 
financial expert".
The experience of the AC members outlined on pages 133-141 
demonstrates that the AC as a whole has competence relevant to 
the sector in which Shell operates, and the necessary commercial, 
regulatory, financial and audit expertise required to fulfil its 
responsibilities. The AC members have gained further knowledge 
and experience of the sector as a result of their Board membership 
and through various in-person and virtual site visits since their 
respective appointments. 
The AC invites the Chief Financial Officer, the Legal Director, the Chief 
Internal Auditor, the Executive Vice President (EVP) Taxation and 
Controller (as of October 1, 2022, this role was divided into two roles: 
EVP Taxation and EVP Controller), the Vice President Group Reporting 
and the external auditor to attend each meeting. The Chief Executive 
Officer attends each meeting where the quarterly, half-year and year-
end financial results are discussed. The Chair of the Board also 
regularly attends AC meetings. Other members of management attend 
when requested on specific topics or to provide input on more detailed 
technical matters that may arise. The AC regularly holds private 
sessions separately with the Chief Internal Auditor and the external 
auditor without members of management, except for the Legal Director, 
being present. Outside of the formal AC meetings the Chair of the AC 
meets regularly with each of the following: the Chief Financial Officer, 
EVP Taxation, EVP Controller, the Chief Internal Auditor, the external 
auditor, and the Chief Information Officer.
AC remit
The roles and responsibilities of the AC, as set out in its Terms of 
Reference, are reviewed annually taking into account relevant 
regulatory changes and recommended best practice. The key 
responsibilities of the AC include, but are not limited to:
Risk Management and Internal Control
▪ evaluating the effectiveness of the system of risk management and 
internal control;
Financial Reporting
▪ reviewing the integrity of the financial statements, including annual 
reports, half-year reports, and quarterly financial statements; 
▪ reviewing the potential impacts on the consolidated financial 
statements of the implementation of the Company's strategy, 
climate change and the energy transition;
▪ advising the Board whether, in the AC’s view, the Annual Report 
taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's 
position and performance, business model and strategy;
▪ reviewing and discussing with management the appropriateness of 
judgements involving the application of accounting principles and 
disclosure rules; 
Compliance and Governance
▪ reviewing the functioning of the Shell Global Helpline and reports 
arising from its operation; 
▪ overseeing compliance with applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements, including monitoring ethics and compliance risks; 
Internal Audit
▪ monitoring the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence 
of the internal audit function; 
▪ approving the internal audit function’s remit and the annual internal 
audit plan to ensure alignment with the key risks of the business;
▪ reviewing the significant matters arising from internal audits with the 
Chief Internal Auditor and assessing management’s response to 
significant internal audit findings and notable control weaknesses. 
This includes discussing with management potential improvements 
and agreed actions;
▪ assessing internal audit's performance and effectiveness each year; 
External Audit
▪ reviewing and monitoring the qualifications, expertise, resources and 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor; 
▪ considering the annual external audit plan and approving related 
remuneration, including fees for audit and non-audit services; 
▪ assessing the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor 
and the audit process, including an assessment of the quality of the 
audit; and 
▪ recommending to the Board for it to put to the Company's 
shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) to 
appoint, reappoint, or remove the external auditor.
Governance
Audit Committee Report continued
167
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

These responsibilities form the basis of the AC’s annual work plan, 
which is adjusted as necessary throughout the year. In addition, the 
AC annually identifies certain business and function areas to focus on 
during that year. The focus areas generally encompass aspects of risk 
management and internal control, financial reporting and compliance. 
The AC is authorised to seek any information it requires from 
management and external parties and to investigate issues or 
concerns as it deems appropriate. The AC may also obtain 
independent professional advice at the Company's expense.
No such independent advice was requested in 2022. 
The AC keeps the Board informed of its activities and 
recommendations, and the Chair of the AC provides an update to the 
Board after every AC meeting. The AC discusses with the Board if it is 
not satisfied with or believes that action or improvement is required 
concerning any aspect of financial reporting, risk management and 
internal control, compliance or audit-related activities. 
A copy of the AC’s Terms of Reference can be found at www.shell.com. 
AC topic coverage in 2022
The pie chart below shows the percentage of time the AC spent on 
various activities during 2022.
Focus areas for 2022
 
of AC time and activities
The AC met with senior leaders from various business and function 
areas to discuss the adequacy, design and operational effectiveness 
of risk management and controls related to the critical activities carried 
out by their respective business or function. The discussions included 
information on any enhancements to strengthen controls and how 
areas identified for improvement had been addressed; the monitoring 
of activities around key risks; and the steps being taken to identify new 
or emerging areas of risk. 
In addition to the significant accounting and reporting considerations 
discussed on page 172 the business and function areas reviewed by 
the AC in 2022 included the following:
▪ Impact of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and Shell’s announced 
withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities - Management
and the AC discussed the management of the crisis including the 
establishment of the Group Crisis Team which was set up to assess 
the situation, consider potential scenarios of how events could 
develop and co-ordinate Shell’s responses. The AC reviewed 
management’s approach to impairments of Russian assets; the 
potential total carrying value of all exposures to Russia (including 
Russian assets, obligations related to Russia (e.g. taxes and/or 
royalties due) and credit exposures related to the Group’s Russian 
activities); contracts; insurance implications; and sanctions. 
Throughout the year, the AC and management discussed the actions 
taken and their impacts. The AC also reviewed disclosures in relation 
to the situation, including the notes to the quarterly and year-end 
results announcements. 
▪ Non-operated ventures (NOVs) controls and governance - 
Management provided the AC with an overview of the strategic 
decisions for when management decides to utilise a NOV structure; 
the population of NOVs by size; which NOVs had adopted Shell’s 
control framework or implemented scalable control frameworks and 
the associated risks for those NOVs that have yet to adopt or 
implement such controls; and a self-assessment tool used to assess 
risks and the compliance status of NOVs. Management and the AC 
also discussed the pace of NOVs in progressing the energy transition 
and their approach to risk management.
Governance
Audit Committee Report
168 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
External Audit
Internal Audit
G
overnance
Com
pliance and
Financial Reporting
Risk Management and Internal Controls
2022 Focus Areas
21%
8%
8%
25%
13%
25%
21%
168
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Focus areas for 2022 continued
▪ Climate change and energy transition, including impacts on financial 
statements as well as relevant sustainability and non-financial 
reporting and other regulatory developments – the AC was regularly 
updated in relation to developments and their potential implications 
for Shell including in relation to sustainability-related financial 
reporting standards, the TCFD guidance, the UK government's 
response to the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial 
Strategy (BEIS) "Restoring trust in audit and corporate governance" 
consultation and the FRC consultation on minimum standards for 
audit committees.
▪ Carbon management, including GHG reporting and assurance 
framework – the AC was provided with an update in relation to the 
Carbon Management Framework (CMF) and the Carbon Reporting 
Committee (CRC). The role of the CMF is to ensure that targets are 
achievable, have assurance and that performance can be measured. 
The purpose of the CRC is to ensure that GHG emissions targets, 
including both absolute emissions and carbon intensity and 
associated financial metrics, comply with legal and regulatory 
requirements and that data is timely, complete and accurate. The 
CRC focuses on methodology, standards, processes and assurance. 
Management provided the AC with an overview of processes, 
systems and assurances in relation to Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. 
The AC and Management also discussed potential future regulatory 
assurance requirements for the financial statements.
▪ Resegmentation – the AC reviewed the appropriateness of the 
financial disclosure improvements made during the first quarter of 
2022 including disclosures of the Renewables and Energy Solutions 
business following resegmentation and further transparency through 
the split of downstream businesses into Marketing and Chemicals 
and Products.
▪ Trading and Supply – the AC was provided with a number of 
updates in relation to Trading and Supply activities, particularly in 
the light of market volatility. The AC also visited the trading floor
in London during which the AC members received a number of 
briefings, including in relation to the trading platforms used by
the Trading and Supply team and an overview of gas storage 
management during 2022.
▪ Introduction and implementation of windfall taxes such as the EU 
solidarity contribution and the Energy Profits Levy in the UK – the AC 
was provided with updates in relation to this topic and also reviewed 
the disclosures in the financial statements. 
Site visits
During the year, AC members visited Shell Recharge Fulham Road, 
Shell’s first UK all-electric-vehicle charging hub and the AC also 
conducted a site visit to the London trading floor. As part of Board 
Strategy Days, AC members also visited Singapore in June 2022 
(see Board Strategy Days on page 150). During 2023, the AC plan 
to visit a number of operations in the USA.
Site visits are a welcome addition to the AC’s annual work plan, 
as they provide the opportunity for the AC to gain a deeper 
understanding of the various businesses and functions at each location, 
the local external environment within which those activities take place 
and how they contribute to Shell achieving its strategic ambitions. 
In addition to in-depth examinations of specific business areas, site 
visits enable the AC members to interact with a diverse group of staff 
and learn about their experiences, challenges they face and their 
opportunities for career development. The AC is also briefed on the 
impact of the energy transition at a local level, how risks associated 
with climate change are managed, and the results of the Shell 
People Survey.
Governance
Audit Committee Report continued
169 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
169
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Risk Management
and Internal Control
of AC time and activities
The AC assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to risk 
management and internal control. In order to monitor the effectiveness 
of the procedures for internal control over financial reporting, 
compliance and operational matters, the AC reviews reports on risks, 
controls and assurance, including the annual assessment of the system 
of risk management and internal control. This annual assessment 
includes the AC's review of outcomes from the Group Assurance Letter 
process. The Group Assurance Letter process involves each Executive 
Director conducting a structured internal assessment of compliance 
with legal and ethical requirements and the Shell Control Framework. 
The AC also reviews the Company’s evaluation of the internal control 
over financial reporting as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act (SOX 404). The AC updated the Board on compliance with 
internal controls across the Shell Group and on any major matters for 
which action or improvement was recommended.
Activities performed Frequency
Risk Management and Internal Control
Review the policies and practices and monitor the effectiveness 
relating to Shell’s risk management and internal control system. P
Receive briefings on regulatory developments. P
Review management's SOX 404 assessment. A
Discuss significant matters arising from completed internal audits 
with the Chief Internal Auditor, management and the external 
auditors.
Q
Assess management’s responses to significant audit findings, 
recommendations and notable control weaknesses, including 
potential improvements and agreed actions.
P
Review significant legal matters with Shell’s Legal Director. Q
Review the oil and gas reserves control framework. A
Review Shell’s information risk management. P
Review Shell’s tax function, key tax risks and Shell’s approach to 
the evolving area of tax transparency. P
A = Annually, Q = Quarterly, P = Periodically 
Throughout the year, the AC and management discuss Shell’s 
overall approach to risk management and internal control, including 
compliance, tax, and information risk management matters and the 
adequacy of disclosure controls and procedures. The AC receives 
regular reports from the EVP Taxation and Controller (EVP Controller 
with effect from October 1, 2022) on the status of actions to address 
control weaknesses identified via business control incidents and the 
trends in other measures used to monitor the robustness of the risk 
management framework and internal control systems. 
The AC is also briefed on litigation matters (see "Other regulatory and 
statutory" on page 211 and Note 31 to the "Consolidated Financial 
Statements" on page 303. 
The AC regularly reviews the status of management’s SOX 404 
testing of controls and remediation actions to address any identified 
weaknesses. For 2022, these reviews included consideration of how 
the volatile external environment, including the impacts of the Russian 
invasion of Ukraine, affected the controls and assurance landscape, 
including the financial reporting process. The AC and management 
discussed the steps taken to maintain an effective control environment, 
to demonstrate "management in control" during the year and to 
address any new or emerging risks due to hybrid working. The AC was 
also briefed on how management was monitoring and addressing any 
continuing impacts on the control environment from the organisational 
restructuring from Reshape.
It is important that the AC monitor and learn about evolving external 
developments in a timely fashion. Accordingly, the AC is regularly 
briefed on developments in the legal, regulatory and financial reporting 
landscape that could affect the Company. 
In 2022, the AC dedicated time to the following topics:
▪ Tax risks – In addition to the regular review of Shell’s tax provisions, 
the AC and management discussed the tax implications stemming 
from the Simplification that took place in early 2022. Management 
also briefed the AC regarding developments in the external tax 
landscape, including the new windfall and minimum taxes and 
different types of taxes when entering new markets and businesses. 
Management outlined for the AC the steps being taken to manage 
tax risks and exposures arising from differing viewpoints on complex 
tax laws. The AC and management discussed proposed changes to 
Shell's "approach to tax" which were being made to align with Shell's 
Powering Progress strategy and Simplification. 
▪ Information risk management –The Chief Information Officer briefed 
the AC on the various actions under way to strengthen Shell's IT 
systems and cyber-security framework in response to the changing 
risk landscape and diverse forms of external threats observed. The 
AC and management discussed the use of dashboards in monitoring 
assets and compliance and enabling the deployment of actions 
when required. The AC and management discussed tracking of 
projects, including the utilisation of clear milestones and value 
assessments as projects develop. The AC and management also 
considered the impact of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and Shell's 
announced withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities from an 
information risk management perspective, including the separation of 
information systems from Russia and monitoring of cyber-security risk. 
▪ Oil and gas reserves control framework – The AC annually reviews 
the framework that supports Shell’s internal reporting and external 
disclosures of oil and gas reserves. The AC also reviews the 
processes and controls that prevent and/or mitigate the risks of
non-compliance with regulatory reporting requirements. This annual 
review of Shell’s oil and gas reserves control framework supports
the AC’s review of Shell’s reported proved oil and gas reserves 
discussed later in this report.
In addition to the above, the AC also had quarterly discussions with the 
Chief Internal Auditor regarding the Company’s risk management and 
internal control system, significant matters arising from the internal 
audit assurance programme and management’s response to significant 
audit findings and notable control weaknesses, including planned 
improvements and agreed actions.
The AC similarly holds discussions with EY on a quarterly basis 
regarding how risks to audit quality are addressed, key accounting and 
audit judgements, results from audit procedures and management’s 
response to any significant audit findings and any material 
communications between EY and management.
 
Governance
Audit Committee Report continued
170 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
25%
170
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Financial Reporting
of AC time and activities
The AC receives comprehensive reports from management and the 
external auditor on quarterly financial reporting, accounting policies 
and significant judgements and reporting matters.
Activities performed Frequency
Financial Reporting
Review Shell’s accounting policies and practices, including 
compliance with accounting and reporting standards. Q
Assess the appropriateness of key judgements and the 
interpretation and application of accounting principles. Q
Review the potential impact on the consolidated financial 
statements of the implementation of the Company's strategy, 
climate change and the energy transition.
Q
Consider the integrity of the year-end financial statements and 
recommend to the Board whether the audited financial statements 
should be included in the annual and statutory reports.
A
Consider the integrity of the half-year report and quarterly financial 
statements. Q
Review management’s assessment of going concern and longer-
term viability. Q
Review Shell’s policies with respect to earnings releases; financial 
and non-financial performance information and earnings guidance; 
and significant financial reporting matters.
Q
Review Shell’s policies with respect to oil and gas reserves 
accounting and reporting including the outcome of the oil and gas 
reserves booking/debooking process.
A
Review the internal controls for financial reporting. P
Advise the Board of the AC’s view on whether, taken as a whole, 
the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
Shell’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
A
A = Annually, Q = Quarterly, P = Periodically 
The AC reviewed the Company’s 2022 quarterly unaudited interim 
financial statements, half-year report, Annual Report and Form 20-F 
with management and the external auditor. 
Shell uses alternative performance measures (APMs) to provide greater 
insights into its financial and operating results. The AC regularly 
considers the APMs used in Shell’s reporting, the reconciliations to IFRS 
financial statements and explanations for changes from the previous 
quarter and year. The AC reviews the overall presentation of APMs 
with management to ensure they are not given undue prominence. 
The AC discusses adjusting items with management including any 
changes to methodology. 
The APMs disclosed by Shell are subject to the same internal control 
process as applied for other financial reporting. 
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
The AC advised the Board that in its view the 2022 Annual Report 
including the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 
2022, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Shell’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy (see 
"Governance" on page 211). To arrive at this conclusion, the AC 
critically assessed drafts of the 2022 Annual Report including the 
financial statements and discussed with management the process 
undertaken to ensure that the relevant requirements were met. This 
process included: verifying that the contents of the 2022 Annual Report 
are consistent with the information shared with the Board during the 
year to support their assessment of Shell’s position and performance; 
ensuring that consistent materiality thresholds are applied for 
favourable and unfavourable items; considering observations 
from the external auditor; and receiving assurance from the 
Executive Committee (EC).
Going concern and viability statement
The AC reviewed and considered the Directors’ half-year and full-year 
statements with respect to the going concern basis of accounting. As 
noted in the viability statement, the Board also reviews the strategic 
plan which takes account of longer-term forecasts and a wide range 
of outlooks. Key assumptions included: the impact of commodity prices; 
exchange rates; future carbon costs; agreements such as liquid natural 
gas contract renewals; production levels, product demand and 
schedules of growth programmes; the financial framework; Shell’s 
business portfolio developments including consideration of the impacts 
of various possible energy pathways and scenarios for changes in 
societal expectations in relation to climate change and Shell’s 
commitment to the Paris Agreement goals; the project funnel to support 
future growth; and using severe but possible scenarios to run models of 
the financial impact if certain of Shell’s principal risks materialised. The 
AC considered the mitigating measures and sensitivities that 
management had applied to the modelling of scenarios when 
evaluating the viability statement and noted that assumptions do go 
well beyond the three-year period and do take into account climate 
change and energy transition. The AC also considered the merits of 
extending the viability statement beyond a period of three years and 
concluded that the three-year period selected by the Board for the 
review of Shell’s prospects, in line with the operating plan, remained 
appropriate. The AC supported the going concern basis of accounting 
and the inclusion of Shell’s viability statement in "Other regulatory and 
statutory" on page 211 and considered such statement to be in line with 
best practice guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC).
Governance
Audit Committee Report continued
171 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
25%
171
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Financial Reporting
continued
Significant accounting and reporting considerations
The AC assessed the following significant accounting and reporting areas, including those related to Shell’s 2022 Consolidated Financial 
Statements. The AC was satisfied with how each of the areas below was addressed. As part of this assessment, the AC received reports, 
requested and received clarifications from management, and sought assurance and received input from the internal and external auditors. 
Climate change and energy transition
Risks related to climate change and energy transition 
are continually monitored to ensure impacts are 
reflected within Shell's financial statements.
The external landscape related to non-financial 
disclosures continues to change at unprecedented 
speed. In the absence of one global standard for 
climate-related reporting there are growing demands 
from various regulatory and voluntary bodies all with 
their own expectations for disclosures.
The AC was briefed on key regulatory requirements including (but not limited to) the FRC, SEC and EU 
disclosure requirements and their implications for Shell’s external disclosures. The AC also received an 
update on the outcome of management’s engagement with Sarasin & Partners and Carbon Tracker.
The AC reviewed Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements summarising the key climate risks 
impacts on the Consolidated Financial Statements as well as the impairment sensitivity disclosures using 
price outlooks based on different climate change scenarios, including external scenarios.
See Note 4 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 252-260.
The AC was briefed on the non-financial reporting external landscape developments and regulatory 
requirements. In this connection, the AC considered the potential implications required for Shell's external 
disclosures going forward. The AC reviewed the TCFD disclosure in the "Our journey to net zero" section 
and other non-financial disclosures as part of the Annual Report review and was briefed on the EU 
taxonomy voluntary disclosures included as supplementary information to the Annual Report.
Updates regarding climate change and energy transition have been included in the risk factors section on 
page 16.
Resegmentation and improved financial disclosures
In line with IFRS 8 - Operating Segments and the 
Powering Progress strategy, Shell's reporting 
segments were revised from the first quarter of 2022.
To further improve the quality of insights provided 
by Shell's financial disclosures, improvements were 
made during the year, for example enhanced data 
disclosures and APMs.
The AC received updates on the implementation readiness, including restatement of prior period 
comparatives and assurance activities performed over the resegmentation prior to the publication 
of the first quarter 2022 quarterly results announcement.
The AC undertook its regular monitoring and assessment in the use of APMs, for example Adjusted Earnings 
(including identified items during the quarters), Adjusted EBITDA, CFFO excluding working capital, and Net 
debt and Gearing.
The AC reviewed the appropriateness of the financial disclosure improvements made during the first 
quarter 2022 including the changes to the Management Discussion & Analysis in the quarterly results 
announcement (QRA) and the enhanced disclosures in the Quarterly Data Book, for example the separate 
disclosure of the Renewables and Energy Solutions business following resegmentation and further 
transparency through the split of downstream businesses into Marketing and Chemicals and Products.
Withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities
Following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Shell 
announced its intent to withdraw from: its ventures 
in Russia; service stations and lubricant operations; 
and involvement in all Russian hydrocarbons.
The diverse nature of the Russian activities, including 
consolidated subsidiaries, proportionally 
consolidated ventures, equity-accounted ventures, 
long-term loans, vessel leases, and offtake contracts, 
required an in-depth review to determine the 
accounting and reporting implications.
In the first quarter of 2022, management provided the AC with a detailed analysis of the different 
accounting and reporting implications for each business and asset in Russia. The AC reviewed the disclosure 
note in the first quarter 2022 QRA which included comprehensive disclosures on individual assets and the 
associated pre-tax charges recognised in the first quarter results.
In each subsequent QRA during 2022, the disclosure note was updated for changes in the respective 
periods and was included in the quarterly results announcements.
The AC has continued to receive updates on the withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities throughout 
2022 including remaining assets at risk and the implications for the interim financial statements. 
See Note 6 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 262-264.
Taxation
The determination of tax assets and liabilities requires 
the application of judgement as to the ultimate 
outcome, which can change over time. In particular, 
uncertain tax treatments require management to 
assess the more likely than not outcome, and the 
recognition of deferred tax assets require 
management to make assumptions regarding future 
profitability. As a result, they are inherently uncertain.
The AC considered the uncertain tax positions and discussed management’s assumptions of future taxable 
profits. The AC also evaluated the appropriateness of the recognition of deferred tax assets and tax 
liabilities. The AC recognises that assumptions regarding future taxable profits are inherently uncertain 
because they involve assessing factors such as the potential impacts of climate change and energy 
transition. The AC deemed the assessments of uncertain tax exposures and the recognition of deferred tax 
assets and tax liabilities to be reasonable. The AC also assessed the accounting judgements made 
regarding the treatment of tax provision releases relating to Nigeria. 
The AC also reviewed the impact on tax balances and disclosures as a result of new windfall and minimum 
taxes around the world, in particular those related to the EU solidarity contribution and the Energy Profits 
Levy in the UK.
See Notes 2 and 22 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 242-252 and 283-285.
Issue AC activity and outcome
Governance
Audit Committee Report continued
172 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
172
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Financial Reporting
continued
Issue AC activity and outcome
Gas & Power markets and derivatives accounting
External events during the year, such as the Russian war 
in Ukraine and uncertainties over Russian gas supplies, 
have seen unprecedented movements in gas and power 
markets during 2022 affecting trading activities. The 
impacts on financial outcomes of Integrated Gas and 
Renewable and Energy Solutions included, for example, 
significant derivatives movements.
The AC was briefed on Trading and Supply activities and developments. The AC reviewed the impacts of 
volatile gas and power markets including the impact on mark-to-market valuation of derivatives, IFRS and 
Adjusted Earnings, as well as the resulting cash flow movements.
See Note 25 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 293-299.
Impairment and impairment reversals
The carrying amount of an asset should be tested for 
impairment or impairment reversal whenever events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying amount for that asset may have changed, 
for example if there is a change in the outlook for 
commodity prices or refining margin assumptions, or 
in the event of revisions to future activity plans and 
developments. On classification as held for sale, the 
carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment 
(PP&E) and intangible assets must also be reviewed.
The AC reviewed the impairment assessments that were performed each quarter, and the methodology 
applied in conducting impairment assessments. 
The AC considered the updated oil and gas price outlooks against market developments and 
benchmarks. The 2022 commodity price outlook was reassessed and triggered an impairment reversal 
review in the second quarter 2022. The AC reviewed the outcomes of the review and the resulting 
impairment reversals which have been recognised in the 2022 Consolidated Financial Statements.
The AC also reviewed other impairment triggers, including for exploration an evaluation assets and held-
for-sale classification for asset disposals, and the impairment of goodwill, including for new acquisitions. 
The AC review of impairments covered a significant proportion of the balance sheet.
See Notes 2, 11, 12 and 13 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 242-252, 270-271, 
271-274 and 275.
Portfolio activities 
In implementing the Powering Progress strategy, several 
portfolio developments occurred in 2022. 
The AC discussed the accounting implications of these developments and the recognition of: (i) 
decommissioning and restoration provisions; (ii) deferred tax balances; (iii) impairment; and (iv) assets 
held for sale. The AC also considered the complex accounting treatments, including the Savion and 
Fulcrum acquisitions. The AC provided support for projects to develop detailed accounting guidance 
for these types of transaction.
See Notes 2 and 24 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 242-252 and 292-293.
Provisions
Provisions, including decommissioning and restoration 
provisions, are one of the main components of the 
balance sheet liabilities. The quantification of these 
provisions requires judgements on input parameters 
which include, but are not limited to, discount rates and 
estimated future decommissioning and restoration costs.
The AC was briefed on provisions throughout the year, including onerous contracts and litigation. The AC 
also reviewed the input parameter assumptions and judgements used in arriving at the decommissioning 
and restoration provisions. 
The discount rate is reviewed regularly and the AC considered the change in discount rate to be applied 
from September 30, 2022. The impact of the change in discount rate on non-current decommissioning 
and other provisions was disclosed in the Q3 2022 QRA.
Retirement benefit obligations
Retirement benefits are an important component of both 
assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. The 
quantification of these assets and liabilities requires 
judgements on input parameters which include, but are 
not limited to, actuarial assumptions and discount rates.
The AC was briefed on the management of risks in relation to retirement benefits in 2022, including 
financial, operational, and regulatory developments. The AC reviewed the key assumptions (including 
discount rates and inflation) and sensitivities as part of the Annual Report review and the enhanced 
disclosures made in this Report.
See Note 23 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 285-291.
Other matters
The AC reviewed: the year-end reported proved oil and gas reserves, including management judgements and adjustments made to reflect 
changes in geological, technical, contractual and economic information (including yearly average price assumptions) and the effectiveness 
of financial controls. 
Governance
Audit Committee Report continued
173 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
173
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Compliance and 
Governance
of AC time and activities
 
Activities performed Frequency
Compliance and Governance
Monitor the receipt, retention, investigation and follow-up actions of 
complaints received, including those from the Shell Global Helpline. P
Review with the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer the 
implementation and effectiveness of the ethics and compliance 
programme and function.
A
Consider compliance with applicable external legal and regulatory 
requirements. P
Perform an evaluation of the AC’s performance and effectiveness 
and report the results to the Board. A
Review and, if required, update the AC’s Terms of Reference. A
Review the Chief Financial Officer’s significant business and 
investment transactions for potential conflicts or related party 
transactions.
A
Assess the Chief Financial Officer’s performance. A
A = Annually, Q = Quarterly, P = Periodically 
Ethics and compliance 
In 2022, the AC received an update from the Chief Ethics and 
Compliance Officer on how a range of macro factors and external 
trends and developments, including Russia's invasion of Ukraine, were 
affecting conduct risk at Shell. The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer 
summarised the specific emerging ethics and compliance risks, with a 
particular focus on trade compliance and data privacy, and 
management's actions to manage and mitigate them. The Chief Ethics 
and Compliance Officer briefed the AC on communications to staff 
from both senior leaders and mid-level management reinforcing the 
importance of adherence to and affirming Shell’s commitment to the 
Ethics and Compliance framework and Code of Conduct throughout 
the year.
As part of the annual assessment of the system of risk management and 
internal control, the AC discussed with the Chief Ethics and Compliance 
Officer his annual report on compliance matters. The report included an 
overview of the effectiveness of the Shell ethics and compliance 
programme in managing ethics and compliance risk in Shell’s business 
activities, regulatory developments and compliance activities. The AC 
also reviewed investigations of cases involving ethics and compliance 
concerns. The AC discussed management’s findings in such cases to 
satisfy itself that a rigorous process had been followed, with 
appropriate disciplinary action being taken where necessary, and 
that management had embedded learnings into Shell's systems 
and controls. 
Whistleblowing investigations
The AC is responsible for establishing and monitoring the 
implementation of procedures for the receipt, retention, investigation 
and follow-up actions of complaints received, including those from the 
Shell Global Helpline. The AC reviewed whistleblowing reports and 
internal audit reports and considered management’s responses to the 
findings in these reports. In 2022, 1,790 allegations and inquiries were 
received through the Shell Global Helpline (2021: 1,479), of which 
approximately 41% were submitted anonymously (2021: 42%). In 
2022, a total of 412 investigations were closed (2021: 369), of which 
44% were found to have some level of substantiation (2021: 49%) and 
were primarily in the areas involving harassment, conflicts of interest 
and protection of assets. 
Regulatory developments
The AC was briefed on regulatory developments in areas including 
sustainability and climate-related disclosures (in particular 
management’s responses to proposals from the International 
Sustainability Standards Board and the US Securities Exchange 
Commission in this area and FRC/EU disclosure requirements); 
the UK government's response to the consultation on strengthening 
the UK's audit, corporate reporting and corporate governance 
systems, and potential implications for the Company, the Board 
and the AC; accounting and reporting; environmental liabilities; 
and treasury activities. 
AC annual evaluation 
The AC undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance and 
effectiveness. Consistent with the requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the performance evaluation was externally 
facilitated in 2022, and an overview of the evaluation process and 
the feedback themes for the Committees can be found on page 153. 
It was concluded that the AC's performance in 2022 had been 
effective and that the AC had fulfilled its role in accordance with 
its Terms of Reference. 
In preparing its work plan for 2023, the AC has included the following 
focus areas in addition to the standing items: risk management, 
including cyber security; regulatory developments, mainly those in 
relation to climate change and energy transition; Trading and Supply; 
and the Shell Performance Framework. As noted earlier, the AC also 
plans to visit a number of operations in the USA in 2023.
Governance
Audit Committee Report continued
174 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
8%
174
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Internal Audit
of AC time and activities
Activities performed Frequency
Internal Audit
Evaluate the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of the internal 
audit function including the competence, qualifications, expertise, 
compensation and budget.
A
Review and approve the internal audit function’s remit, charter and 
audit plan. A
Assess the performance of the Chief Internal Auditor. A
A = Annually, Q = Quarterly, P = Periodically 
Each quarter, the AC discusses with the Chief Internal Auditor the 
Company’s risk management and internal control system, any 
significant matters arising from the internal audit assurance programme 
and management’s response to significant audit findings and notable 
control weaknesses including planned improvements and agreed 
actions. The AC also regularly holds private sessions separately with 
the Chief Internal Auditor without members of management, except for 
the Legal Director, being present. The AC's time for these activities is 
included in Risk Management and Internal Control described earlier in 
this report. Outside of the formal AC meetings, the Chair of the AC 
meets regularly with the Chief Internal Auditor.
Internal audit remit
The internal audit function is an independent assurance function 
which supports Shell’s continuous efforts to improve its overall control 
framework. The internal audit function contributes to the maintenance 
of a systematic and disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the 
design and effectiveness of Shell’s risk management, and control and 
governance processes. The primary role of the internal audit function’s 
assurance and investigation activities is to safeguard value by 
protecting Shell’s assets, reputation and sustainability in relation 
to the organisation's defined goals and objectives. 
The AC defines the responsibility and scope of the internal audit 
function and approves its annual plan. The Chief Internal Auditor 
reports functionally to the Chair of the AC and administratively to the 
Chief Financial Officer. The Chair of the AC approves, in consultation 
with the Chief Financial Officer, all decisions regarding the 
performance evaluation, appointment or removal of the Chief 
Internal Auditor.
Annual internal audit plan and assessment of internal 
audit’s effectiveness
The AC considered and approved the internal audit function’s annual 
audit plan, including focus areas for 2022 consisting of:
▪ talent and capability (professional audit development and technical 
capabilities); 
▪ quality (developing first-line staff competence and clarity on self-
verification and supervisory controls); 
▪ alignment (improved integration of risk management and alignment 
of assurance processes across Shell); and 
▪ engagement (mainly in the area of keeping staff and Shell 
stakeholders engaged and informed on effective risk management 
and internal control). 
Beginning August 2021, audits of the Health, Safety, Security, 
Environment and Social Performance (HSSE & SP) Control Framework 
were added to internal audit’s remit, creating a unified internal audit 
function. The Chief Internal Auditor updated the AC quarterly on the 
approved 2022 internal audit plan and discussed whether the plan 
remained fit for purpose in addressing the most critical areas of risk in 
a year of transition. The AC assessed the performance of the internal 
audit function as effective. The AC also assessed the performance of 
the Chief Internal Auditor as effective.
The Chief Internal Auditor periodically assesses whether the purpose, 
authority and responsibilities of the internal audit function continue 
to enable it to accomplish its objectives. The results of this periodic 
assessment are communicated to the EC and AC. The Chief Internal 
Auditor also confirms to the AC the continued validity of the charter 
of the internal audit function or puts forward proposals for updates to 
it. The Chief Internal Auditor maintains an internal quality assurance 
and improvement programme, including an annual assessment of 
the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal audit function's activities 
and evaluations of conformance with the standards of the Chartered 
Institute of Internal Auditors (CIIA). The Chief Internal Auditor discusses 
the results of this annual assessment with the EC and AC. At least every 
five years, the effectiveness and quality of the internal audit function 
are independently assessed externally, and the Chief Internal Auditor 
reviews the report with the EC and the AC. An independent assessment 
of the internal audit was conducted at the end of 2022, following up 
on the previous review in 2018. The assessment confirmed that the 
internal audit conforms with the CIIA standards and the 2020 Internal 
Audit code of practice. Strengths were highlighted with respect to the 
clarity on management ownership of the actions in response to the 
audit findings, and the integration of learning and improvement into the 
scope of effective risk management and internal control. Opportunities 
to further improve were identified with respect to efficient quality 
assurance and having clarity on the internal audit strategic roadmap, 
how it links to Powering Progress and the plan for technology, skills 
and staffing. The roadmap will be discussed with the EC and AC 
during 2023.
Governance
Audit Committee Report continued
175 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
8%
175
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
External Auditor
of AC time and activities
Activities performed Frequency
External Audit
Review and approve the engagement letter for EY's annual audit of 
the Company's consolidated and parent company financial 
statements.
A
Approve the remuneration for audit and non-audit services, 
including pre-approval of permissible non-audit services.
Q
Consider the annual external audit plan and monitor the execution 
and results of the audit.
P
Monitor the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence 
of EY.
A
Review the Company’s representation letter prior to signing by 
management.
A
Assess the performance, objectivity and effectiveness of EY, the 
audit process, the quality of the audit, EY’s handling of key 
judgements, and EY’s response to questions from the AC.
P
Recommend to the Board that the reappointment of the external 
auditor be put to the Company’s shareholders for approval at the 
AGM.
A
A = Annually, Q = Quarterly, P = Periodically 
Annual external audit plan and assessment of external 
audit’s effectiveness
EY reviewed with the AC its audit strategy, scope and plan for the 
2022 audit, highlighting any areas which would receive special 
consideration. In particular, the AC and EY discussed how the audit 
would take into consideration risks associated with: 
▪ Trading and Supply deal complexity; 
▪ Revenue recognition (unauthorised trading and risk of fraud or 
management override);
▪ Climate change considerations; 
▪ Russia;
▪ Oil and gas reserves;
▪ Renewables and Energy Solutions;
▪ Exploration assets; and
▪ Compliance with laws and regulations. 
EY defines significant audit risks as those areas where there is a higher 
likelihood of a material error and therefore require special audit 
attention. In EY’s view, the significant audit risks are Trading and 
Supply complexity and the risk of unauthorised trading or 
management override.
The AC considered the annual audit plan, which included assessing 
whether the planned materiality levels and proposed resources to 
execute the audit plan were consistent with the scope of the audit, 
particularly in light of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. During the year, 
EY provided regular updates to the AC on the envisaged separation 
of its businesses into two multidisciplinary organisations. EY provided 
assurances that it would be able to continue to perform a high-quality 
audit should the split of businesses proceed.
EY regularly updated the AC on the status of its procedures and 
preliminary findings, providing an opportunity for the AC to monitor the 
execution and results of the audit. The AC and EY discussed how risks 
to audit quality were addressed, key accounting and audit judgements, 
material communications between EY and management and any issues 
arising from them. At least quarterly, the AC met privately with EY 
representatives without management being present in order to 
encourage open and transparent feedback from both parties. In 
addition, the Chair of the AC meets separately with the external 
auditor on a regular basis. 
As part of its oversight of the external auditor, the AC annually 
assesses the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor and 
the audit process. This includes assessing the quality of the audit, how 
the auditor handled key judgements, and the auditor’s response to the 
AC’s questions. The assessment also involves the AC evaluating the 
objectivity and independence of EY and the quality and effectiveness 
of the external audit process. 
The AC’s evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the 
external auditor and the audit process includes the following key 
criteria:
▪ professionalism, competence, integrity and objectivity during the 
audit, including handling of areas involving judgement and 
estimates; 
▪ EY's quality assurance procedures and internal quality control 
procedures; 
▪ audit quality priorities and actions taken as part of maintaining a 
sustainable audit quality programme;
▪ constructive challenge of management and key judgements; 
▪ efficiency, covering aspects such as service level and innovation 
in the audit process, use of data analytical and digital audit tools, 
and opportunities for improvement; 
▪ quality of the audit team's leadership;
▪ the most recent EY Transparency Report; 
▪ thought leadership and actions, especially in the areas of climate 
change; and 
▪ compliance with relevant legislative, regulatory and professional 
requirements.
In addition to reflecting on its own experiences, including interactions 
with the external auditor throughout the year, the AC considered and 
discussed the results of management’s internal survey relating to EY’s 
performance over the financial year 2022, which reflected a broadly 
comparable performance to 2021 and the views and recommendations 
from management and the Chief Internal Auditor.
Taking into account the above, the AC is satisfied that EY continued to 
provide a high-quality and effective audit in its seventh year as auditor 
and maintained its objectivity, integrity and impartiality. As required 
under UK and US auditing standards, the AC received a letter on 
independence related matters from EY. EY also informed the AC in 
writing of any significant relationships and matters that may reasonably 
be thought to affect its objectivity and independence. The AC and EY 
discussed such relationships and matters and determined that they did 
not impair EY's objectivity, integrity and impartiality. 
During 2022, there was no review of EY’s audits of Shell’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements by the Audit Quality Review (AQR) 
team of the FRC. 
Governance
Audit Committee Report continued
176 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
13%
176
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
External Auditor
continued
Reappointment
The AC is responsible for considering whether there should be a 
rotation of the independent registered public accounting firm in order 
to ensure continuing auditor quality and/or independence, including 
consideration of the advisability and potential impact of conducting a 
tender process for the appointment of a different independent public 
accounting firm. The AC is also responsible for recommending to the 
Board whether it should ask the Company’s shareholders to appoint, 
reappoint or remove the external auditor at the AGM.
At the AGM in May 2022, the shareholders approved a resolution to 
reappoint EY as external auditor until the conclusion of the next AGM. 
EY was first appointed at the AGM in May 2016 after a competitive 
tender process. This means that 2022 represents EY’s seventh year 
as the Company’s external auditor. Under UK legal requirements, the 
Company may retain EY as its external auditor for 20 years. For the 
2022 financial year, the Company has complied with The Statutory 
Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory 
Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee 
Responsibilities) Order 2014. 
In its oversight of the external audit, the AC considered whether 
it would be appropriate to conduct an audit tender at this time.
The AC took into account: 
▪ its continued satisfaction with the quality and independence
of EY’s audit; 
▪ any new external auditor would need a transition period to
develop sufficient understanding of the business given Shell's
size and complexity; 
▪ frequent changes of external auditor would be inefficient and could 
lead to increased risk and the loss of cumulative knowledge; 
▪ a change in auditor would be expected to have a significant impact 
on Shell, including on the Finance function; and 
▪ any change in auditor should be scheduled to limit operational 
disruption. 
The AC also considered EY’s leadership and activities in the area 
of climate change. 
After due consideration the AC determined that it would not be 
appropriate to re-tender for the external audit at this time. The AC has 
recommended to the Board that at the 2023 AGM the Board should 
propose that EY be reappointed as the external auditor of the 
Company for the year ending December 31, 2023. The AC’s 
recommendation is free from third-party influence and there are no 
contractual obligations that restrict the AC’s ability to make such 
a recommendation. 
The AC acknowledges the UK legal requirements relating to mandatory 
audit rotation (maximum 20-year engagement) and audit tendering 
under which the Company will be required to tender for the audit no 
later than the financial year 2026. The AC regularly reviews auditor 
performance and may decide to conduct the tender earlier than the 
financial year 2026 if it considers this to be in the interests of the 
Company's shareholders.
Non-audit services
The AC maintains an auditor independence policy (AIP) in respect of 
the provision of services by the external auditor. Under the AIP, the AC 
will only approve services to be carried out by the external auditor or 
its affiliates where such services do not present a conflict of interest risk 
in fact or in appearance. The AC regularly reviews this policy for 
necessary changes in response to changes in related standards and 
regulatory requirements. 
This policy is designed to safeguard auditor objectivity and 
independence. It addresses the provision of audit services, audit-related 
services and other non-audit services and stipulates which services 
require specific prior approval by the AC. 
The policy also defines prohibited services in line with applicable rules 
and regulations. Our external auditors are not allowed to provide 
prohibited services due to independence concerns. For certain non-
prohibited services, because of the knowledge and experience of the 
external auditor and/or for reasons of confidentiality, it may be more 
efficient or prudent for the external auditor to provide such services.
The AC reviews quarterly reports from management on the audit and 
non-audit services reported in accordance with the policy or for which 
specific prior approval from the AC is being sought. Under the AIP, no 
prior approval by the AC is required for any additional audit service 
contract not individually exceeding $500,000. All non-audit services 
where the fee for an individual contract exceeds $100,000, including 
audit-related services, require individual prior approval by the AC. For 
audit or non-audit service contracts that do not exceed the relevant 
threshold, the matter is approved by management by delegated 
authority from the AC and is subsequently presented for approval by 
the AC at the next quarterly AC meeting. The AC is mindful of the 
overall proportion of fees for audit and non-audit services in 
determining whether to approve such services.
The scope of the non-audit services contracted with the external 
auditor in 2022 consisted mainly of interim reviews and other audit-
related assurance services. The associated compensation for these 
audit-related services and other non-audit services amounted to 
5% and 5%, respectively, of the external auditor’s audit and
audit-related remuneration.
Fees
After due consideration, the AC approved the auditor’s remuneration, 
satisfying itself that the level of fees payable in respect of the audit and 
non-audit services provided was appropriate and that an effective, 
high-quality audit could be conducted for such fees.
Note 34 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 307 provides 
details of the auditor’s remuneration.
Governance
Audit Committee Report continued
177 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
177
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

“2022 has been a year
full of challenge, but also
of significant financial, 
operational and strategic 
achievements.”
This Report
This Directors’ Remuneration Report for 2022 has been prepared
in accordance with relevant UK corporate governance and legal 
requirements, in particular Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008
(as amended). The Board has approved this report. 
This report consists of two further sections: 
▪ the Annual Report on Remuneration (describing 2022 remuneration 
and the planned implementation of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy (Policy) in 2023); and
▪ the Policy, which is subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 
2023 AGM.
 
Neil Carson 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholders, 
Shell delivered a very strong set of financial results in 2022, with 
income of $43 billion and record Adjusted Earnings of $40 billion, and 
generated more than $68 billion of cash flow from operations (CFFO) 
and $46 billion of free cash flow (FCF). This level of financial 
performance undoubtedly reflects macro-environmental conditions, but 
is enabled by disciplined operational delivery and the ongoing work to 
create a resilient and profitable portfolio. From a shareholder 
perspective Shell has made almost $26 billion of shareholder 
distributions for 2022 through dividends and share buybacks, including 
the increased fourth quarter 2022 dividend.
However, financial outcomes must be placed in a much wider context. 
Two of our contractor colleagues in Shell-operated ventures sadly died 
in the course of their work for Shell. We reflected on these incidents, as 
we always do, when we determined the final pay outcomes for 2022, 
as set out over the page. 
Shell embraces the challenges and opportunities presented by the 
necessary transition of the world’s energy system to a low-carbon 
future. We also seek to play our part in meeting today’s energy needs 
against the backdrop of soaring energy demand as the world recovers 
from COVID-19 and the disruption caused by Russia’s invasion of 
Ukraine. This has resulted in inflationary and cost-of-living pressures for 
many, particularly when it comes to the supply of energy, and has often 
had a significant impact on the most vulnerable members of society. 
The REMCO, therefore, has also paid close attention to the impact on 
a wide group of stakeholders of these events and factors, including:
▪ The response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, with Shell 
announcing, in early March 2022, its intended withdrawal from 
its involvement in all Russian hydrocarbons, including crude oil, 
petroleum products, gas and liquefied natural gas (LNG). This is 
accompanied by the ongoing efforts to support our Ukrainian 
operations, employees and contractors; 
▪ Shell’s role in helping to ensure the security of energy supplies, as 
we build a resilient portfolio to address short- and long-term energy 
needs. In 2022, this included final investment decisions on the 
Jackdaw field in the UK, Rosmari-Marjoram in Sarawak, Malaysia, 
the Crux Field in Australia which will supply gas to Prelude (the 
floating LNG facility), and the North Field East expansion in Qatar. 
As the world's largest supplier of LNG, Shell continues to supply 
energy where it is needed most. Part of this was the announcement 
that Shell UK intends to invest £20-25 billion in the UK energy 
system over the next 10 years, subject to Board approval and a 
stable policy framework, to ensure the continuity of an energy supply 
that is affordable and secure. More than 75% of this is intended for 
low- and zero-carbon products and services, including offshore wind, 
hydrogen, carbon capture utilisation and storage (CCUS) and 
electric mobility;
▪ Initiatives to support customers and those in society facing fuel 
poverty; and
▪ The impact on Shell’s employees, where alongside its usual 
evaluation of markers such as the UK diversity pay gap, the 
REMCO took particular note of the planned salary increases for 
2023 for employees. The REMCO also noted the exceptional 
reward to employees in 2022, including the vesting of an 
extraordinary award of Shell shares made in June 2021 to the 
broader employee population to give them an equity stake in the 
delivery of the Powering Progress strategy and a one-off Special 
Recognition Award of 8% of salary to around 81,000 individual 
employees (excluding Executive Directors and the Executive 
Committee) globally. This was to recognise and thank them for 
their collective delivery through a challenging period to keep Shell 
running safely, reliably and profitably. The Special Recognition 
Award reflects management’s desire to share Shell’s success with 
employees, as well as shareholders.
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
178
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

On April 1, 2022, Sinead Gorman succeeded Jessica Uhl as CFO 
as part of an accelerated management succession process. This was 
because a long-term relocation from the Netherlands to the UK was 
unsustainable for Jessica Uhl on account of family circumstances. On 
January 1, 2023, Wael Sawan succeeded Ben van Beurden as CEO. 
This was a proactively managed succession that enabled Shell to 
appoint a new CEO with the proven acumen and experience to guide 
us through the next stage of our energy transition journey. See page 
133 for further details of the Executive Director changes, the incoming 
Directors' remuneration packages, and the treatment of the outgoing 
Directors' remuneration.
At the May 2023 Annual General Meeting (AGM) shareholders will 
have the opportunity to vote on the revised Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy (Policy). The REMCO has spent much time over the past year 
reviewing the Policy. Our conclusion is that, on the whole, the Policy 
is robust and well aligned with best governance practice. However, 
we are proposing a small number of changes to maintain that strong 
governance framework and support the delivery of our Powering 
Progress strategy. In this report, I share the REMCO’s thinking on a 
number of the key proposed developments.Further information on 
shareholder engagements may be found on page 154.We will also 
be seeking shareholder approval for a revised Long-term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP) at the AGM. The revised plan remains largely unchanged from 
before, save for minor amendments to align with market practice. 
Further information is provided in the Notice of AGM.
2022 remuneration outcomes
2022 annual bonus
The overall mathematical outcome of the annual bonus scorecard was 
above target, at 1.46. The REMCO also paid close attention to the two 
fatalities which occurred in 2022. One contractor colleague in Nigeria 
died from injuries sustained during a fire incident. In Pakistan, a 
contractor colleague died during road transport activities under 
operational control of Shell. After reflecting on Shell’s overall 
performance in 2022, and particularly on safety performance (see 
below), the REMCO decided not to use any discretion in determining 
the final outcome for Executive Directors. This brings our 10-year 
average scorecard outcome to 1.04.
 
The complete scorecard with all targets, ranges and weightings, and a detailed 
discussion of performance against targets are set out on page 187.
REMCO reflections on safety
Safety is Shell’s number one priority and our Powering Progress 
strategy is underpinned by this. It is critical that our operations 
run safely every day and that we strive to ensure the well-being 
of all our people.
Shell uses Serious Injury and Fatality Frequency (SIF-F) as our 
scorecard measure for assessing personal safety performance. 
SIF-F tracks the frequency at which injuries with life-changing 
consequences occur under Shell operational control. We also 
assess process safety using the number of Tier 1 and 2 process 
safety events. This tracks the frequency of unplanned or 
uncontrolled releases of materials from Shell’s operations. 
Some shareholders have asked how we approach target-setting 
for the SIF-F metric. To be clear, our ultimate target is zero harm 
to people. As a business, we have made good progress in 
reducing the number of personal safety events over a long 
period of time, with reductions in the number of fatalities and 
injuries (see chart to the right). 
 
REMCO reflections on safety continued
The REMCO believes the SIF-F metric is an important tool to 
help drive further improvement in safety and take us closer to 
our ultimate goal of zero harm. The metric focuses management 
and organisational attention on those incidents with the 
potential to cause most damage. To assess performance, 
the REMCO set clear performance ranges based on historic 
outcomes, our understanding of the industry and taking into 
account our planned activities for the year.
Personal safety performance 2000-2022
With both fatality incidents in 2022, the root causes have been 
identified as design and human factors while operating physical 
assets. These incidents continue to serve as a reminder of the 
need to always focus on safety and be aware of the gravity of 
impact when things do not go as planned. Notwithstanding 
these tragic incidents, the outcome on the safety-related 
performance metrics was strong in 2022.
In 2022, both the personal safety (SIF-F) and process safety 
(number of Tier 1 and 2 process safety events) was much better 
than expected. There were significant reductions in both the 
number of serious injuries and process safety events compared 
with Shell’s performance in the previous year. Eight SIF events 
were recorded in 2022, down from 32 in 2021. There were 
66 process safety events compared with 103 in the prior year. 
The REMCO also evaluated performance against external 
benchmarks, noting that performance had been strong against 
industry standards. For process safety, Shell reached top 
quartile compared to our industry peer group, in the third 
quarter of 2022, with lowest number of Tier 1 and 2 process 
safety events on record. Beyond the metrics, the REMCO also 
noted the ongoing work by management to embed the safety 
refresh in Shell assets and businesses. Shell’s refreshed 
approach to safety, based on promoting a learner mindset 
through deeper understanding of human performance 
principles and destigmatising errors, is seen as a key 
contributor to improvement. 
After careful consideration of Shell’s holistic safety performance 
in 2022, including the two fatalities, the outcome of the formal 
metrics, Shell’s long-term progress on safety, and management's 
work on the safety refresh, the REMCO determined not to make 
any adjustment to the scorecard outcome for safety.
Safety incidents that occur in 2023 will be assessed as part 
of the REMCO's considerations of performance outcomes 
for 2023.
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
179 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Fatalities Total Recordable Case Frequencya b
a
Fatalities TRCF
b
0
20
30
10
40
50
60
0.0
5.0
10.0
2015201020052000 2020
179
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Vesting of the 2020 LTIP awards
Overall, the mathematical outcome of the LTIP was 81%. For the 
avoidance of doubt, no LTIP targets were adjusted as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic or for any other reason. In addition, the REMCO 
was satisfied that no windfall gain had arisen. Further information is on 
page 188.
The REMCO believes the vesting outcome to be representative of 
Shell's performance over the period and that no adjustment was 
required. This brings the 10-year average vesting outcome to 87% of 
target. This is broadly aligned with our target grant, although there 
have been a number of high and low vesting outcomes over the last 
10 years. The REMCO believes this illustrates the fundamental 
effectiveness of the LTIP and the close alignment between pay 
and performance that the structure has provided over time.
 
Full details of LTIP targets and weightings, and a discussion of performance 
against targets, are set out on page 188.
Finalising the 2022 pay outcomes 
In finalising pay outcomes, the REMCO considered the wider 
performance of Shell and the broader context during 2022 and 
over the LTIP performance period, paying particular attention to: 
▪ The strong financial performance in 2022, with more than $68 
billion of CFFO, including working capital, and $46 billion of FCF 
generated in the year, which has enabled Shell to continue to pay 
down debt, and return $26 billion to shareholders in the form of 
share buybacks and dividends;
▪ The ongoing work to transform Shell as part of the energy transition, 
including the completion of the simplification of the Shell Group with 
the assimilation of the A and B shares into a single class of shares 
effective as of January 29, 2022, and the ongoing work to 
strengthen and simplify the portfolio;
▪ Adjusted Earnings for 2022 was $17 billion higher than for 2014, 
when the Brent price was similar, evidencing strong management 
performance in addition to price tailwinds;
▪ The shareholder experience, including total shareholder distributions 
over the LTIP performance period of $44 billion, with almost 
$26 billion for 2022 alone;
▪ Shareholders' views on remuneration, as shared with the REMCO 
during engagements in March and November 2022; 
▪ The employee experience, where the REMCO noted the 
discretionary uplift applied to the 2021 bonus for below-Board 
employees, the vesting of the Powering Progress share award to all 
employees, the Special Recognition Award of 8% of salary made to 
employees below senior executive level in August in recognition of 
the contribution staff made to Shell’s strong operational performance 
in a challenging period, the Group scorecard outcome of 1.46, and 
the Performance Share Plan, used to make discretionary share 
awards below senior executive level, which vested at 115% of target, 
and the average employee salary increases; 
▪ The year-on-year comparison between single figure outcomes in 
2021 and 2022; and
▪ The 10-year average outcomes of the annual bonus scorecard (1.04) 
and LTIP (87% of target), which demonstrate the effectiveness of the 
current reward structures in aligning pay outcomes with targets over 
the longer term. 
This resulted in a single figure outcome of £9.7 million for the CEO, 
an increase of 53% from 2021. The CFO's single figure outcome was 
£2.9 million, noting that this is the first single figure of remuneration 
disclosed for her, and that her LTIP award which has just vested was 
made prior to her appointment as an Executive Director. The REMCO 
was satisfied that the prevailing shareholder-approved Policy had 
operated as intended, and these outcomes were appropriate in the 
context of Company performance and the target pay opportunity 
under the Policy.
[A] Policy target and maximum based on the shareholder-approved 2020 Remuneration Policy in respect of the annual bonus and the LTIP. Salary, pension and benefits are based on 2022 data.
[B] Policy target and maximum for Sinead Gorman have been pro-rated to relate to the period April 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022, to allow comparison with her 2022 realised pay.
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
180 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
2022 pay outcomes summary
 Fixed pay  Bonus LTIP
Ben van Beurden (£ million)
2022 realised pay 2022 realised pay 
202 0 Policy target 
202 0 Policy maxi mum
0 4 12 168
Sinead Gorman [B] (£ million)
202 0 Policy target 
202 0 Policy maxi mum
0 4 6 82
2022 pay compared with Policy [A] a b c
a b a b
LTIP: accrued dividends and share price changed
c d c d
2022 pay outcomes summary continued
 
Ten-year LTIP vesting
0%
200%
150%
100%
50%
 
e
Ten-year CEO single ﬁgure outcomes
0
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 20 20 20222021
25,000
20, 000
15,000
10, 000
5,000
 Base salary and beneﬁts  
 Bonus  
 LTIP 
 
Pensio n and tax equ alis ationa
b
c
d
CEO target pay [A]  
 TSR  
 EPS/FCF  
 CFFO  
Production /ROACEa
b
c
d
Energy transitione
 
(£ thousand)
Target  
10-year aver age: 
87 % of target award 
'20-'22'19-'21'18-'20'17-'19'16-'18'15-'17'14-'16'13-'15'12-'14'11-'13
ab
c
d
a
b
c
d
180
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

2023 remuneration
2023 salaries
Wael Sawan was appointed as CEO on January 1, 2023, on a salary 
of £1,400,000. No increases are anticipated during 2023. Effective 
January 1, 2023, Sinead Gorman received an increase of 2.8% and her 
salary for 2023 is £925,000. In reviewing the CFO's salary, the 
REMCO considered carefully the external environment, and the 
increases provided to the general workforce in the key markets of the 
UK, the USA, and the Netherlands (average 5.8%). The CFO's increase 
for 2023 was positioned below this level and the REMCO recognised
the "multiplier effect on total remuneration".
2023 LTIP performance conditions 
In terms of variable pay, the REMCO reviewed alternative reward 
mechanisms such as restricted shares as part of the Policy review. 
However, we believe that the focus on pay-for-performance provided 
by the existing design of an annual bonus and performance-based 
long-term incentive remains the best mechanism to support the 
achievement of Shell’s strategic objectives under Powering Progress. 
The REMCO focused extensively on the LTIP performance metrics 
during the Policy review and intends a number of changes to ensure 
strong alignment with delivering Powering Progress and meeting the 
challenges of the coming years. Shell’s strategy is based on generating 
cash from its existing businesses to fund the investment necessary 
to accelerate the transition of Shell’s businesses to net zero, while 
creating shareholder value. To support this, the REMCO is proposing 
a simplified set of LTIP performance metrics that incentivise and reward 
the key priorities of: 
▪ Financial delivery;
▪ Disciplined capital spending;
▪ Generating shareholder returns; and
▪ Developing Shell’s business for the energy transition.
The REMCO has a strong track record of ensuring reward outcomes 
are appropriate (note that the 10-year average vesting outcome of the 
LTIP is close to target at 87% of target) and will provide a full disclosure 
of all factors taken into account in making the vesting decision at the 
conclusion of each vesting cycle.
Cash generation and disciplined capital expenditure
▪ Absolute organic free cash flow (OFCF) provides a marker of
the cash available for financing activities, including shareholder 
distributions and debt servicing, after investment in maintaining and 
growing our business. To date, the existing FCF performance has 
been assessed on a total basis, including net divestment proceeds 
and cash flows from acquisitions. This reflects the strategic priority in 
delivering the divestment programme necessary since the acquisition 
of BG Group Plc in 2016. Under the proposed Policy, the REMCO 
intends to shift to a measurement of organic FCF (i.e. excluding net 
divestment proceeds and cash flows from acquisitions) in order to 
place greater emphasis on the operational outcomes. Performance 
will be assessed on an absolute basis to support an alignment 
between pay outcomes and the shareholder experience.
▪ Relative cash generation (defined as CFFO/average capital 
employed) provides a measure of Shell’s ability to generate the top-
line cash flows to finance investment in our business and shareholder 
distributions. Performance will be assessed on a relative basis, 
measuring how efficiently Shell generates cash relative to our peers. 
This is designed to ensure an ongoing tight alignment with strategy 
as Shell concentrates on developing a higher-value and more 
resilient portfolio, and replaces the existing CFFO metric which 
was based on relative growth. 
▪ The REMCO also considered the overall balance of the LTIP metrics 
and intends to remove the current ROACE performance metric from 
the 2023 performance assessment framework. Capital discipline 
remains a key consideration, particularly as Shell enters a period 
which may require an investment in new forms of business models
for the energy transition. It is critical that this investment is done in a 
disciplined manner which generates shareholder value. The REMCO 
believes capital discipline is adequately incentivised through the LTIP 
by both FCF and relative cash generation (which takes account of 
capital employed). 
Shareholder returns
Relative total shareholder returns (TSR): there is no change to this 
measure, with performance measured on a relative basis against the 
peer group to provide an assessment of value created for shareholders 
relative to our closest peers. 
Energy transition 
Growing Shell’s future business: in 2019, Shell introduced the Energy 
Transition performance condition to the LTIP. We were the first major 
energy company to introduce such a condition, which directly tied 
reward outcomes to Shell’s success in reducing net carbon emissions 
from all energy products sold, measured against our Net Carbon 
Intensity (NCI) target, as well as the delivery of the key strategic 
initiatives that will get us there. For the 2023 LTIP awards, we are 
increasing the weighting of this condition to 25%.
As we explained when the performance condition was introduced, we 
expected that we had much to learn about the transition to low-carbon 
energy as it evolved and therefore also much to learn about how to 
measure progress. There is no right answer, and it was important that 
we got started on this journey and developed that understanding of 
how to best measure performance as we proceeded. In our LTIP metrics 
to date, we have tracked NCI reduction and rewarded participants for 
getting going on a range of the strategic levers for energy transition. 
We agreed a number of performance indicators for each strategic 
theme, with a target outcome range supported by strong discretionary 
overlay, rather than seeking to maximise output in specific 
remuneration periods or in precise ways that do not match
non-linear business development.
Even so, in the context of a changing energy system which requires 
agility from Shell’s businesses as they identify and capitalise on the 
opportunities presented by the energy transition, we have found that 
detailed performance indicators and targets can quickly become 
outdated. Assessing progress requires, in turn, agility from the REMCO 
as we ensure the right behaviours and actions are rewarded.
Going forward, we will continue to track progress against 
performance indicators for the essential strategic levers for the 
energy transition, with the focus of the REMCO’s performance 
assessment shifting to an approach which emphasises a more holistic 
view of achievement of strategic intent, using performance indicators 
as guidance. This approach is intended to support experimentation 
and learning what will deliver net zero in a profitable way.
For the 2023 LTIP awards, an assessment of performance will continue 
to be based on those things that matter most: NCI reduction and 
supporting strategic themes of reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions; 
building a renewable power business; growing new low-carbon
energy offerings; and developing emission sinks and offsets. 
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
181 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
181
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The REMCO will make an assessment of progress against the NCI 
target and Shell’s longer-term performance indicators for each 
strategic theme when making the vesting decision for each reward 
cycle. This approach will maintain a clear quantitative target through 
the NCI target.
We have noted strong support for a more holistic assessment of 
progress in our engagement with shareholders. The REMCO is also 
aware that some shareholders have a preference for fixed targets set 
upfront for all LTIP metrics. This is something the REMCO intends to 
evolve towards over time. However, at this time, the optimal design is 
to support management in delivering our strategy and capturing value 
from the opportunities presented by the energy transition. 
Other LTIP considerations 
Comparator group: the REMCO has given much consideration to the 
appropriate peer group for assessing relative performance as part of 
the Policy review. For many years, this has consisted of BP, Chevron, 
ExxonMobil and TotalEnergies. Changing strategies for the energy 
transition, including differing timeframes and level of ambition, prompt 
a regular reconsideration of this group. The REMCO has evaluated a 
number of alternative peer companies, including smaller European 
energy producers with similar strategic ambitions, power and pure-play 
renewables companies, and smaller oil and gas producers. Following 
this, the REMCO has determined that the existing comparator group 
remains the appropriate reference point for assessing relative 
performance for the TSR and cash generation metrics. Despite strategic 
differences, these companies remain Shell’s closest peers in terms of 
scale and business model. Critically, they are also similarly tasked with 
reinventing legacy positions. While they have the financial capability 
that comes from those positions, they also have the constraints of 
growth from existing scale and supply responsibilities to society. 
The REMCO intends to keep this under review. 
The REMCO also considered the threshold vesting level for the relative 
metrics and determined not to make any changes. 
 
Further information is provided on page 200.
2023 Policy 
The REMCO believes the 2020 Policy is robust and well aligned 
with reward governance best practice. But the REMCO is proposing 
adjustments to maintain the strong governance framework and support 
the delivery of the Powering Progress strategy. We consulted with 
shareholders on the proposed changes and have taken into account a 
diverse range of shareholder views in our decision-making. It is worth 
noting that as a result, we have not proceeded with all of our initial 
proposals but believe there is majority support for those changes we 
are choosing to take forward. The full proposed Policy is set out from 
page 203 onwards. To highlight some of the key changes: 
Severance policy: under Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman's service 
contracts, both the employee and the employer can terminate 
employment by giving 12 months' written notice, replacing the 
previous policy which accounted for Dutch statutory provisions.
Pension: Shell’s long-standing policy has been to provide Executive 
Directors with pension benefits aligned with those for the wider 
workforce in their home country. To enhance transparency and ensure 
retirement benefits are consistent with the UK headquarters of Shell, 
Executive Director pensions (including for Wael Sawan and Sinead 
Gorman) will be aligned with defined contribution pension 
arrangements offered to Shell's UK employees (currently 20% 
of salary).
TSR underpin: the existing LTIP has the added complexity of an 
underpin, whereby the vesting outcome is capped at 100% should 
the TSR performance condition fail to rank in a vesting position. This 
was introduced as a mechanism to support alignment between pay 
outcomes and the shareholder experience at a time when the LTIP was 
wholly based on relative performance. However, this provision adds 
complexity to the plan and is not market-aligned, with the REMCO not 
being aware of any similar examples of a TSR-based underpin being 
used by any other FTSE30 company. Nor has experience proven it a 
necessary Policy feature as the underpin has not been invoked to date. 
Therefore, in the interests of simplifying the plan, the REMCO are 
proposing to remove the TSR underpin from the 2024 awards onwards. 
Looking ahead
The year ahead brings the vote on the proposed Policy at the AGM 
and I look forward to ongoing dialogue with our shareholders in the 
coming months. 
Neil Carson
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
March 8, 2023
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
182 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
182
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration
Remuneration at a glance
2022
Annual bonus
2022 annual bonus
Ben van Beurden 
£2,590,000
Sinead Gorman
£1,180,000 (pro rata)
2022 bonus scorecard outcome
Overall scorecard outcome: 1.46
No individual performance factor used in bonus 
calculation
Bonus delivery
50% delivered  
in cash
50% delivered  
in shares
Shares are subject to a three-year holding 
period which extends beyond an Executive 
Director’s tenure.
Fixed pay and shareholding
Base salary
Wael Sawan (CEO)
£1,400,000
Sinead Gorman (CFO)
£925,000 
 2.8%
Pension
Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman’s pensions 
are aligned to the Shell UK defined contribution 
pension arrangements offered to new employees, 
which have an employer contribution of 20% 
of salary.
Benefits
Following his relocation to the UK, Wael Sawan 
received relocation support for his family’s move to 
the UK, and a housing allowance. Sinead Gorman 
continues to receive a housing allowance. Neither 
Executive Director’s housing allowance will extend 
beyond 2023.
Shareholding
Target levels, 
% of base salary
Actual levels, 
% of base salary at 
March 6, 2023
CEO 
CFO
700% 
500%
389% 
177%
Annual bonus
Target % of base salary
 
Target
Maximum
Wael Sawan 
125% 
250%
Sinead Gorman 
120% 
240%
Scorecard architecture
35%
35%
15%
15%
a
b
c
d
a   Cash flow from operations 
(weighted 35%)
b   Operational excellence 
(Asset management excellence 15%, 
project delivery excellence 10%, 
customer excellence 10%)
c   Shell’s journey in the energy transition 
(Selling lower-carbon products 5%, 
reducing operational emissions 5%, 
partnering to decarbonise 5%)
d   Safety (S I F - F  7. 5 % , 
Tier 1 and 2 process safety 7 .5%)
Long-term Incentive Plan
Target awards % of base salary
 
Target
Maximum
Wael Sawan 
300% 
600%
Sinead Gorman 
270% 
540%
Performance conditions
25%
25%
25%
25%
a
b
d
c
a   Relative cash generation (CFFO/average 
capital employed) (weighted 25%)
b   Relative TSR (25%)
c   Absolute OFCF (25%)
d   Absolute energy transition (25%)
Performance against the relative metrics is assessed 
against other energy majors (BP, Chevron, Exxon 
and TotalEnergies).
2023
Fixed pay and shareholding
Base salary
Ben van Beurden (CEO) 
£1,420,000
Sinead Gorman (CFO)
£900,000
Pension
Following their relocation to the UK, Ben van 
Beurden and Sinead Gorman’s pensions were 
aligned to the Shell UK defined contribution 
pension arrangements offered to new 
employees, which have an employer 
contribution of 20% of salary.
Benefits
Following their relocation to the UK, Ben van 
Beurden and Sinead Gorman received support 
with temporary commuting costs such as travel 
and accommodation until their families 
relocated. They also received relocation support 
for their families’ move to the UK, and housing 
allowances which will not extend beyond 2023. 
Shareholding
Target levels,%  
of base salary
Actual levels,  
% of base salary at 
December 31, 2022
CEO
CFO
700%
500%
1433%
102%
Long-term Incentive Plan
2020 – 2022 LTIP vesting outcome
Ben van Beurden
 £4,914,397
Sinead Gorman
£552,291
Vesting outcome
Measures Outcome Vesting
TSR  1   2   3   4   5 0%
CFFO growth  1   2   3   4   5 0%
ROACE growth  1   2   3   4   5 18%
FCF 45%
Energy 
transition 18%
81% 
(out of a 200% maximum)
Shares are subject to a three-year holding 
period which extends beyond an Executive 
Director’s tenure.
183
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out:
▪ remuneration at a glance, page 183;
▪ the REMCO’s responsibilities and activities, page 184; 
▪ Directors’ remuneration for 2022, page 185; and
▪ the statement of the planned implementation of Policy in 
2023, page 199.
The base currency in the Directors' Remuneration Report is British 
pound sterling (GBP), as this is the currency of the base salary of the 
Executive Directors to December 31, 2022. Where amounts are shown 
in other currencies, an average exchange rate for the relevant year is 
used, unless a specific date is stated, in which case the average 
exchange rate for the specific date is used.
 
Committee membership and attendance for 2022
Biographies are given on pages 133-141; and the REMCO 
meeting attendance is set out below:
Committee
member Member since
Maximum 
possible 
meetings
Number of 
meetings 
attended
% of 
meetings 
attended
Neil Carson (Chair) June 1, 2019 5 5  100 %
Euleen Goh May 20, 2020 5 5  100 %
Catherine Hughes July 26, 2017 5 5  100 %
Bram Schot [A] May 24, 2022 3 2  6 7  %
Gerrit Zalm [B] May 21, 2014 2 2  100 %
[A] Bram Schot was unable to attend the December 2022 meeting due to another 
scheduled business commitment.
[B] Gerrit Zalm stepped down from the Committee and from the Board with effect 
from May 24, 2022.
The REMCO’s key responsibilities include determining:
 
Senior Management
Executive 
Directors
Executive 
Committee
Company Secretary
and EVP Controller
Performance framework P r r
Remuneration Policy P P r
Actual remuneration and 
benefits P P P
Annual bonus and long-term 
incentive measures and targets
P P r
The REMCO is also responsible for determining the Chair of the 
Board’s remuneration. The REMCO monitors the level and structure 
of remuneration for senior executives below Senior Management and 
makes recommendations if appropriate to ensure consistency and 
alignment with Shell’s remuneration objectives. When setting the Policy 
for Executive Director remuneration, the REMCO reviews and considers 
workforce remuneration and related policies, and how pay and 
benefits align with culture. In exercising its responsibilities, the REMCO 
takes into account a variety of stakeholder considerations. 
The REMCO operates within its Terms of Reference, which are 
reviewed annually, and are available on www.shell.com. As part of 
the Board evaluation, it was agreed that the Board would undertake 
a more strategic review of the Board Committees' agendas and 
remit to ensure alignment with the Board’s future priorities and
longer-term aspirations.
Advice from within Shell was provided by:
▪ Chief Executive Officer (CEO);
▪ Chief Human Resources and Corporate Officer and Secretary
to the REMCO; and 
▪ Executive Vice President Performance and Reward.
The Chair of the Board was consulted on remuneration proposals 
affecting the CEO. The CEO was consulted on proposals relating
to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Senior Management.
The REMCO met five times in 2022 and its activities included:
▪ determining vesting of the 2019 LTIP award for Senior Management;
▪ determining 2022 target bonus opportunities and 2022 LTIP awards 
for Senior Management;
▪ setting 2022 annual bonus and LTIP performance measures and 
targets;
▪ approving the 2021 Directors’ Remuneration Report, conducting a 
comprehensive review of the Policy and incentive structures;
▪ reviewing 2023 bonus and LTIP performance measures and targets; 
▪ consulting with major shareholders and proxy bodies on the 
proposed 2023 Policy;
▪ setting exit and appointment remuneration for Executive Director 
changes, and changes in the Executive Committee; and
▪ monitoring external developments and assessing the impact on 
remuneration decisions.
After a competitive tender process during the year, Ellason and PWC 
were chosen to provide external advice on Shell’s remuneration 
structures and developments in market practice around remuneration. 
The choice of Ellason and PWC was based on their ability to assess
the risk profile of policies, knowledge of investors’ expectations, and 
familiarity with UK and international market practices. Both Ellason
and PWC are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and 
operate according to the group’s code of conduct when advising 
clients. The REMCO is satisfied that the advice provided was objective 
and independent. The total fees in relation to the advice were £12,650 
to Ellason and £75,168 to PWC (excluding value-added tax). During 
the year, PWC also provided other professional consulting services to 
Shell, including, for example, in relation to finance, payroll, tax, and 
sustainability projects. The REMCO also reviewed benchmarking data 
and analysis prepared by Shell’s internal HR function on market 
developments in executive pay.
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
184 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Catherine 
J. Hughes Bram Schot
Euleen GohNeil Carson 
OBE
Gerrit Zalm
184
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Directors’ Remuneration for 2022
 Single figure of total remuneration for Executive Directors (audited)
£ thousand
Ben van Beurden Sinead Gorman [A] Jessica Uhl [B]
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
Salaries [C]  1,420  1,365  675  —  230  890 
Taxable benefits [D]  490  15  327  —  146  278 
Pension [E]  284  346  135  —  33  242 
Total fixed remuneration  2,194  1,726  1,137  —  410  1,409 
Annual bonus [F]  2,590  2,201  1,180  —  —  1,376 
LTIP [G]  4,914  2,418  552  —  —  1,193 
Total variable remuneration  7,504  4,619  1,732  —  —  2,569 
Total remuneration  9,698  6,344  2,869  —  410  3,978 
in US Dollars  11,995  8,728  3,549  —  507  5,473 
in Euros  11,377  7,380  3,366  —  480  4,627 
[A] Sinead Gorman was appointed as CFO and a Board Director effective April 1, 2022. Accordingly, her remuneration for 2022 as shown in the table relates to the period April 1 to December 
31, 2022. Sinead’s LTIP amount reflects the full award granted in 2020 prior to her appointment to the Board, and is shown here for transparency; the performance measures are the same as 
those applying to LTIP awards made to Executive Directors.
[B] Jessica Uhl stepped down from her role as CFO and from the Board on March 31, 2022, and left Group service on June 30, 2022. Accordingly, her remuneration for 2022 as shown in the 
table relates to her service as an Executive Director over the period January 1 to March 31, 2022. Full details of Jessica Uhl's remuneration in respect of the period April 1, 2022 to June 30, 
2022 are set out in the "Payments for loss of office" and "Payments to past Directors" sections.
[C] Base salary: Ben van Beurden and Jessica Uhl’s base salaries for 2022 were set at £1,420,000 (+3.5% from 2021) and £921,000 (+3% from 2021), respectively. Sinead Gorman’s base 
salary was set at £900,000 on her appointment to the Board.
[D] Benefits: in respect of 2022, Ben van Beurden's benefits included time-limited relocation-related costs (£403,368), motoring allowance (£29,998), and grossing costs (£48,897). Sinead 
Gorman's benefits included time-limited relocation-related costs (£268,621), motoring allowance (£22,417), and grossing costs (£30,560). Jessica Uhl’s benefits included time-limited 
relocation-related costs (£77,573), motoring allowance (£7,553), and grossing costs (£52,716).
[E] Pension: Ben van Beurden and Sinead Gorman received cash in lieu of pension contributions equal to 20% of base salary in 2022. Jessica Uhl was a member of the Shell US retirement benefit 
arrangements, as set out on page 197. The amount reported consists of a defined contribution amount of $30,000 (£24,254) and a defined benefit pension accrual of $10,929 (£8,836).
[F] Annual bonus: the full value of the bonus in respect of performance in 2022, comprising both the 50% delivered in cash and 50% bonus delivered in shares. For 2023, the market price of 
shares on February 23, 2023 for London-listed shares (£24.82) was used to determine the number of shares delivered, resulting in 27,273 ordinary shares for Ben van Beurden and 12,426 
ordinary shares for Sinead Gorman, net of tax.
[G] LTIP: the amounts reported for 2022 relate to the 2020 LTIP award, which vested on March 3, 2023, at the market price of €29.37 and £26.04 for Amsterdam-listed and London-listed 
ordinary shares, respectively. The value in respect of the LTIP is calculated as the product of: the number of shares of the original award multiplied by the vesting percentage; plus accrued 
dividend shares; and the market price of ordinary shares at the vesting date. The market price of the Amsterdam-listed shares is converted into GBP using the exchange rate on the vesting 
date. Share price appreciation accounted for €912,309 for Ben van Beurden and £112,430 for Sinead Gorman. The amount shown for Sinead Gorman relates to an award made prior to her 
appointment to the Board, and is shown here for transparency.
Notes to the table: Single figure of total remuneration
for Executive Directors (audited) 
Pension
During the year, Ben van Beurden and Sinead Gorman were eligible 
to participate in the defined contribution UK Shell Pension Plan with 
an employer contribution rate of up to 20% of salary, or take this as 
a pension cash alternative. They chose the latter. The UK Shell Pension 
Plan or associated pension cash alternative is available to new Shell 
employees in the UK at the same contribution levels and currently 
around half of UK employees participate in these arrangements. The 
majority of the remainder participate in a legacy defined benefit plan, 
which closed to new members in March 2013. Sinead Gorman was 
a member of this plan prior to her appointment as CFO.
Jessica Uhl was a member of the Shell US retirement benefit 
arrangements, which included the Shell Pension Plan (a defined benefit 
plan), and a defined contribution plan where she received an employer 
contribution of 10% of salary. This was the same as the average 
employer contribution rate for US employees. As for all other pre-2013 
members of the Shell Pension Plan, she had an annual choice of two 
accrual formulas with different forms of benefits, one in the form of a 
lifetime annuity and the other allowing for a lump-sum payment. She 
elected to accrue benefits for 2022 under the former. Around 7,700 
out of 13,000 Shell US employees have the option of choosing 
between the two formulas. These arrangements are the same for all 
employees who joined Shell US before 2013. The difference in Jessica 
Uhl’s pension provision, compared with other employees who joined 
before 2013, is that because she was an Executive Director her bonus 
was not pensionable. For other relevant US employees the bonus 
is pensionable. 
The REMCO believes these pension arrangements are aligned with 
best practice guidance in the UK which focuses on the alignment of 
Executive Directors’ pension arrangements with those for the general 
employee population.
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
185 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
185
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Annual bonus
The annual bonus is intended to reward the delivery of short-term 
targets derived from the operating plan. The REMCO reviewed 
performance against the scorecard, as follows:
Financial delivery (35% weighting): in a turbulent economic 
environment, robust operational performance and a resilient portfolio 
have enabled Shell to deliver CFFO (including working capital) of 
$68 billion. This exceeded our outstanding performance threshold 
of $45 billion, leading to a maximum outcome on this measure. 
It is worth repeating that the REMCO has long had a policy of not 
adjusting remuneration measures to take account of changes in energy 
prices and currency fluctuations, which supports alignment between 
pay outcomes and the shareholder experience. In engagements with 
our largest shareholders, many have appreciated the transparency 
that this brings. 
Operational excellence (35%): delivery of our Powering Progress 
strategy is underpinned by Shell’s ability to operate its assets efficiently, 
deliver major projects on time and on budget, and leverage its strong 
customer relationships to create value:
▪ Asset management excellence: Upstream controllable availability 
was below threshold, and Midstream availability was below target. 
Refining and Chemicals availability was on target against the plan. 
▪ Project delivery excellence: project delivery was at target. 
▪ Customer excellence: customer satisfaction was above target, as the 
collective effort and resilience of our teams, together with proactive 
customer engagements, helped reduce the impact on customers from 
supply chain challenges that continue to negatively impact some 
businesses. However, our Brand Share of Preference (BSP) was 
below threshold.
Overall the outcome for operational excellence was below target.
Shell's journey in the energy transition (15%): Powering Progress sets 
out a strategy to accelerate Shell’s transition to net-zero emissions; 
this means changing the products we sell and reducing our emissions. 
For 2022, the REMCO introduced three new metrics designed to more 
fully reflect Shell’s role in the energy transition:
▪ Selling lower-carbon products: we are evolving our business models 
to include lower-carbon energy products (thereby reducing 
emissions), as well as non-energy products and convenience retail. 
Performance is measured based on the proportion of earnings in the 
Marketing segment coming from lower-carbon energy products, as 
well as non-energy products (see page 187 for the list of products 
included in this metric). In 2022, the REMCO set a target of 60% 
of earnings from these products, which was met.
▪ Reducing our emissions as an energy user: performance is assessed 
based on GHG abatement projects that result in ongoing Scope 1 
and 2 GHG reductions such as flare reduction and energy efficiency 
projects, site closures, decommissioning and transformations, and 
increasing the use of renewable electricity in our operations. This 
metric is about the delivery of projects which result in sustained 
emission reductions. It does not include the impact of divestments 
and acquisitions. The 2022 outcome was outstanding, with total 
emissions reductions of 2,010 Kt of CO
2 well ahead of our target
of 1,700 Kt of CO2. 
▪ Partnering to decarbonise: we have set annual targets measuring our 
roll-out of electric vehicle charging points, in line with Shell’s target of 
having more than 500,000 electric vehicle charging points by 2025. 
The target for 2022 was to achieve 130,000 charging points by the 
end of the year, and 138,610 charging points were in operation by 
the end of 2022, resulting in above-target performance. 
Overall the score on the Shell's journey in the energy transition measure 
was above target.
Safety (15%): Powering Progress is underpinned by a focus on safety.
It is critical that Shell runs its day-to-day operations safely and ensures 
the well-being of all our people.
▪ Process safety continues to be measured through the number of
Tier 1 and 2 operational safety incidents and was above maximum, 
with 66 events recorded compared with 103 in 2021.
▪ Personal safety SIF-F performance is assessed based on the number 
of serious incidents which might occur in Shell’s businesses based on 
the work plan for the year and our knowledge of industry incident 
rates. Our ultimate goal is zero harm to people working for Shell. 
Shell has made tremendous improvements to safety performance 
over a long period of time. Measures such as SIF-F are important 
tools to give focus to those incidents with the most serious 
consequences and continue to drive improvement. Overall, in 2022, 
we had fewer serious safety incidents, recording eight incidents in 
2022, down from 32 in 2021, which is testament to the ongoing 
focus of our employees in keeping colleagues safe.
Overall, the score on the safety measure was at maximum. As noted in 
the REMCO Chair's introduction, the REMCO reflected carefully on 
safety particularly in light of the two fatalities, and determined not to 
make any adjustments. 
 
Further information is provided in the "REMCO reflections on safety" section on 
page 179.
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
186 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
186
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The table below summarises the 2022 annual bonus scorecard measures including their weightings, targets and outcomes. The scorecard outcome 
for 2022 was 1.46.
 2022 annual bonus scorecard measures and weightings
[A] Including working capital adjustments.
[B] Upstream controllable availability: 84.7% (Threshold 85.0%, Target 87.0%, Outstanding 89.0%); Midstream availability: 89.3% (Threshold 88.7%, Target 90.7%, Outstanding 92.7%); 
Refinery and chemical plant availability: 95.5% (Threshold 94.5%, Target 95.5%, Outstanding 96.5%). Performance assessment is equally weighted between Upstream, Midstream, and 
Refining and Chemicals.
[C] Projects delivered on schedule: 69% (Threshold 30%, Target 65%, Outstanding 100%); project delivery on budget: 103% (Threshold 110%, Target 103%, Outstanding 96%). Performance 
assessment is equally weighted between projects delivered on schedule and on budget.
[D] Customer satisfaction: 8.3 (Threshold 7.6, Target 8.1, Outstanding 8.6); Brand Preference: 13.8% (Threshold 13.8%, Target 14.2%, Outstanding 14.6%). Performance assessment is equally 
weighted between customer satisfaction and brand recognition.
[E] Based on the percentage of Adjusted Earnings in the Marketing segment from lower-carbon energy products (on a life cycle basis), defined as biofuels and EV charging, as well as non-energy 
products, defined as lubricants, bitumen, sulphur (agriculture and forestry), and earnings from convenience retail. The name of this category has been amended from "Progress in the energy 
transition" (as disclosed in the 2021 Directors’ Remuneration Report) to "Shell's journey in the energy transition" to more precisely reflect the nature of this metric.
Accordingly, the REMCO decided the final bonus outcome should be 146% of target and 73% of maximum. This results in a bonus of £2,590,000 
for Ben van Beurden and £1,180,000 for Sinead Gorman for the period she was CFO during 2022.
 2022 bonus outcome calculation
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
187 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Performance 
Measures Weighting Unit
Threshold
(score of 0 
out of 2)
Target
(score of 1 
out of 2)
Outstanding
(score of 2 
out of 2) Outcome
Score
(out of 2)
Financial 
delivery (35%)
Cash flow from operations [A] 35% $bn
35 40 45 68 2.00
Operational 
excellence
(35%)
Asset management excellence [B] 15% % See note B 0.43
Project delivery excellence [C] 10% % See note C 1.04
Customer excellence [D] 10% Index See note D 0.70
Shell’s journey 
in the energy 
transition
(15%)
Selling lower-carbon products [E] 5% % 50 60 70 60 1.00
Reducing operational emissions 5% Thousand tonnes CO
2 1,530 1,700 1,870 2,010 2.00
Partnering to decarbonise 5% Number of EV charge points 104,000 130,000 156,000 138,610 1.33
Safety
(15%)
Personal safety 7. 5 % Serious Injury & Fatality 
Frequency (SIF-F) cases per 
100 million working hours
7. 5 6.0 4.5 1.7 2.00
Process safety 7. 5 % Number of events 120 96 72 66 2.00
Overall scorecard outcome 1.46
Ben van Beurden
Sinead Gorman
Target bonus:
£1,420,000 (base salary)
x 125% = £1,775,000
2022 scorecard
result 1.46
Target bonus:
£900,000 (base salary)
x 120% = £1,080,000
£2,590,000 [A]
£1,180,000 [A]2022 scorecard
result 1.46
Pro rata
factor
9/12
th
[A] Rounded down to the nearest £5,000. Half was delivered in shares subject to a three-year holding period which extends beyond the Executive Director's tenure.
187
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Long-term Incentive Plan vesting: 2020 LTIP
In 2020, Ben van Beurden was granted a conditional share award 
under the LTIP of 300% of salary. Sinead Gorman’s 2020 award is 
also disclosed for transparency, notwithstanding that she was not an 
Executive Director at the time. The awards were made prior to the 
onset of COVID-19 in March 2020, meaning there was no possibility of 
windfall gains from the subsequent fall in share price. While there was 
a 13% reduction in share price since the 2019 award, this was below 
the threshold at which an adjustment would be considered, and 
therefore no adjustment was made to the award size.
In determining the vesting outcome, the REMCO considered Shell’s 
performance over the three-year period January 1, 2020 to December 
31, 2022:
▪ Relative CFFO: in absolute terms, 2022 performance was strong 
with CFFO at $68 billion (including working capital). On a relative 
basis as compared against the 2019 base year when Shell also 
generated strong CFFO of $42 billion, Shell ranked fourth, resulting 
in 0% vesting for this measure. 
▪ Relative TSR: over the performance period, Shell returned around 
$44 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share 
buybacks, whilst TSR was 14.3%. Relative to the other energy majors, 
Shell's TSR ranked fourth, resulting in 0% vesting for this measure.
▪ Relative ROACE: Shell’s absolute 2022 ROACE for LTIP purposes 
was 15.9% (note that ROACE for the LTIP calculation is based on 
disclosed net income and is not adjusted for the after-tax interest 
expense and therefore differs from disclosed ROACE). On a relative 
growth basis compared against 2019 when Shell’s ROACE
was 5.80%, Shell ranked third, resulting in a 80% of target
vesting outcome.
▪ Absolute FCF: strong performance in 2021 and 2022 resulted in 
total FCF of $107.1 billion being generated over the three years, 
above our maximum threshold of $80 billion. This resulted in a 200% 
of target vesting outcome on this measure. Note that FCF for the first 
three quarters of 2022 is 3.5x higher than the equivalent in 2013, 
when Brent price was similar, evidencing strong management 
performance in addition to price tailwinds.
▪ Absolute energy transition: the outcome of this measure is 
determined holistically by the REMCO, taking account of Shell’s 
performance against defined performance indicators and also
Shell’s wider performance in accelerating its transition to a net-zero 
emissions business. Overall, the REMCO determined the vesting 
outcome as 180% of target. Commentary on energy transition 
performance is provided below. 
 
2020 LTIP vesting outcomes – performance measures
The 2020 LTIP energy transition metrics focused on those elements that we understood at the time would make the most impact in achieving 
our goals over the three-year performance period relating to net carbon intensity, the growth of our power business, the growth of lower-carbon 
products, and the development of systems to absorb, capture and store carbon. The approach to the LTIP allows us to experiment and learn 
what is effective and which behaviours and actions will deliver net zero in a profitable way. Accordingly, the REMCO uses the performance 
indicators as guidance, rather than applying a formulaic vesting outcome, when making its decisions.
 Our carbon targets
In 2022 we continued our progress on our path to net zero by 2050. At the end of 2022, we reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30%, 
and the net carbon intensity of our energy products by 3.8% from our 2016 reference year.
[A] 2021 target 2-3% reduction, 2022 target 3-4% reduction, both achieved.
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
188 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Performance 
Measures Weighting Threshold Target Maximum
Outcome 
(out of the maximum 200%)
Vesting outcome 
(% of target award)
Relative
Performance ranked 
against the other energy 
majors: BP, Chevron, 
ExxonMobil and 
TotalEnergies
CFFO 22.5% Third First
 1  3 2  4  5 0% 0%
TSR 22.5% Third First  1  3 2  4  5 0% 0%
ROACE 22.5% Third First  1  3 2  4  5 80% 18%
Absolute
Performance assessed 
against internal financial 
and strategic targets
FCF 22.5% $56bn $65bn $80bn $107bn
200% 45%
Energy transition 10% See below 180% 18%
81%
Net carbon emissions – Scope 1 & 2 operational emissions Net carbon intensity (NCI) (gCO 2 e/MJ)
2016
reference year
2021 2022 2030
target
2050
target
83
million tonnes
CO2e 68
million tonnes
CO2e
41
million tonnes
CO2e
58
million tonnes
CO2e
0
tonnes
CO2e
2021 2023 2024 2025 2030
79 -2.5% [A] -6-8% -9-12% -9-13%
-20%
2035
-45%
2050
-100%
-3.8% [A]
2022
2016
reference
year
188
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 2020 energy transition performance condition: outcome
To help to transform the energy system, Shell’s strategy is to develop a portfolio that will:
▪ provide more electricity to customers, while also driving a shift to renewable electricity;
▪ develop low- and zero-carbon alternatives to traditional fuels, including biofuels and hydrogen; and
▪ address any remaining emissions from conventional fuels with solutions such as carbon capture and storage and nature-based solutions.
Progress against these strategic goals is assessed under the LTIP, alongside the reduction in the total net emissions of all energy products sold, 
as measured by Shell’s net carbon intensity (NCI) target.
Net carbon intensity (NCI) - Performance indicator met
We have medium-term targets to reduce our NCI by 20% by 2030, 45% by 2035 and a long-term target of 100% by 2050, compared with 2016 
levels. Our short-term NCI targets are consistent with these medium-term targets.
We achieved our short-term target for the 2020-22 LTIP cycle to reduce our NCI by 3-4% compared with the 2016 base year, with a 3.8% reduction 
by 2022.
Growing a material power business - Performance indicator substantively met
As with much of the early stages of the energy transition journey, we have been in a phase of piloting and learning and we expect that to continue for 
some time as we create the foundations on which a valuable power business can be built. We are doing this by entering new markets to access 
customers and developing new commercial pathways by creating a funnel of renewable power capacity options and then converting these options to 
realised investments. Over the performance cycle, the Power business has developed, learning how to manage risk and execute projects that can 
leverage Shell’s existing strengths, with the key challenge remaining to identify and act on opportunities that deliver appropriate returns. 
▪ We set out in 2020 with a goal to enter three new markets, aligned with the target markets under our 2019 strategy for the power business for 
direct power sales to end-consumers (applying a materiality threshold of 1 terawatt hour (TWh) of power sold per annum) cumulatively since 2019. 
We achieved two new entries with the ERM acquisition in Australia (now trading as Shell Energy) and our growing power business in Germany 
which reached the materiality threshold in Q4 2022. While our initial target markets were aligned with the 2019 power strategy, this business has 
evolved rapidly and the REMCO also took account of market entries in India, Japan and Italy which while not aligned with the original strategy, 
are consistent with the objectives of entering new markets and creating a customer base. Alongside these the REMCO noted other milestones of 
progress in establishing our customer base such as the acquisition of Inspire, a USA-based renewable energy residential retailer, and Powershop, 
an online energy retailer serving more than 185,000 customers in Australia. We have also refined our thinking on this metric as the Power business 
has evolved, and from the 2021 LTIP have moved to assessing progress based on the total power sales measured in TWh of power sold and the 
proportion of those sales which are from renewables.
▪ We also set out to secure renewable power generation capacity options of 5–10 GW and are well beyond target at 47 GW over the LTIP cycle. 
Investments, such as Sprng Energy group (a $1.55 billion investment, completed in August 2022), a solar and wind platform in India which brought 
significant operational renewable power generation capacity and a pipeline of new projects, and Savion (completed in December 2021), a US 
solar and energy storage developer, are key to enabling us to continue to learn where we can be competitive with the strength of our integrated 
value chain and generate attractive returns.
▪ A target of post-FID capacity of 2-4 GW from renewables was set for the LTIP, which was met with 3.6 GW of post-FID capacity achieved. Notable 
investments towards building this capacity include the Sprng acquisition and the Crosswinds development in the Netherlands which began 
construction in 2022. In total, Shell has invested £7 billion in renewable power projects cumulatively since 2019.
▪ Emerging economies present some of the fastest-growing power markets in the world. Focusing on Africa and South-east Asia, Shell is aiming to 
build an integrated sustainable power business, helping customers access electricity from cleaner sources. Shell intended to invest $200 million in 
energy access customers over the LTIP period. By the end of 2022, we had completed $190 million, falling slightly short of the initial target. The 
most notable investment was the acquisition of Daystar Power (completed in December 2022), a West African provider of hybrid solar power 
solutions to businesses. Daystar was an important growth milestone for Shell’s emerging market power business, and can help address a critical 
energy gap for many businesses that currently rely on diesel generators for back-up power. Investments such as Daystar give Shell platforms to 
develop our customer propositions in dynamic and growing markets for renewable energy, as we look to expand the renewables business away 
from mature markets.
One of the key challenges we have experienced over the LTIP cycle has been volatility and lower-than-expected returns. This has sharpened our focus 
on prioritisation of value over volume. In the power space that means a shift in our focus to compete in a way that utilises the unique nature and skills 
of Shell’s integrated business to give us the competitive advantage and deliver appropriate returns on this energy transition journey.
Growing lower-carbon products - Performance indicator met
Shell is investing in low- and zero-carbon products such as renewable electricity, hydrogen and biofuels, working closely with our customers to identify 
the products they need to decarbonise. Shell’s biofuels strategy is to develop and invest in the projects and technologies to develop a profitable 
manufacturing business converting sustainable feedstocks to low-carbon fuels across three main categories: Hydroprocessed Esters and Fatty Acids 
(HEFA)/Hydrotreated Vegetable Oil (HVO), Renewable Natural Gas (RNG), and advanced biofuels. In the years ahead we also aim to be a leading 
player in a global hydrogen economy, developing integrated hydrogen hubs to serve industry and heavy-duty transport. The 2020 LTIP cycle 
supported this by setting a number of performance indicators which were aimed at de-risking advanced biofuels technologies and the overall 
abatement of CO
2 from Shell’s investment in low-carbon fuels. 
▪ Over the LTIP performance period we took equity positions in two advanced biofuels projects (Lanzajet (USA) and Enerkem Varennes (Canada)), 
ahead of the performance indicator which was set for the LTIP of one investment in a commercial biofuels project. Shell together with its partners 
has agreed to a revised allocation of equity in the Enerkem Varennes Carbon Recycling (VCR) project and over time Shell expects to reduce its 
long-term percentage holding in the VCR project. Therefore, the REMCO determined that it would count only one project. 
▪ For the LTIP we also set a performance indicator of 1,500 Tonnes a day (T/d) of carbon equivalent abated through HVO biofuels and RNG from 
waste sources, which was met with 8,894 T/d abated, largely through the Shell Rotterdam biofuels facility, which Shell took final investment 
decision on in September 2021. Once built this will be among the largest biofuels facilities in Europe, producing enough renewable diesel to avoid 
2,800,000 tonnes of CO
2 per year. The start-up of our first US RNG plant (Oregon) in January 2022 and final investment decisions on three further 
RNG plants (Kansas, Idaho) also support this target.
▪ The REMCO set a performance indicator to identify a number of lead projects for Shell’s proprietary biomass to liquids technology, iH2, for delivery 
once the technology development release is issued. While no FIDs were taken, two priority iH2 projects (Norway and US) are progressing.
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
189 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
189
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Growing lower-carbon products - Performance indicator met continued
Beyond the set targets, the REMCO also considered some of the wider developments that Shell undertook which demonstrate how Shell can help 
meet society’s need for cleaner energy through low-carbon fuels. This included the final investment decision on Holland Hydrogen I in July 2022, 
which will be Europe’s largest renewable hydrogen plant when operational from 2025. The 200 MW electrolyser will produce up to 80 tonnes of 
renewable hydrogen a day, with power coming from the offshore wind farm Hollandse Kust (noord), with some of the hydrogen produced used to 
replace grey hydrogen at the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rotterdam. 
The ultimate proof of the strategy and the contribution that low-carbon fuels can make in reducing emissions is being able to produce and sell these at 
scale, and the REMCO noted that Shell is one of the world's largest traders and blenders of biofuels. The Brazilian joint venture Raízen, in which Shell 
has a 44% interest, is one of the world's largest biofuels producers and in November 2022, Shell announced an agreement to buy 3.25 billion litres of 
sugar-cane ethanol under a long-term agreement with Raizen. In December 2022, Shell reached an agreement to acquire Nature Energy, the largest 
producer of renewable natural gas in Europe (with the acquisition completed in February 2023), supporting Shell’s ambitions to grow its low-carbon 
fuels production.
Develop emissions sinks - Targets met
The development of systems that capture and store or absorb carbon is required as part of the global response to climate change to reduce and 
compensate for emissions where there are not currently scalable low-carbon alternatives. The 2020-22 LTIP energy transition performance condition 
focused on getting started on developing the commercial value chains and capacity for future projects, with metrics based on taking FID on a number 
of the projects.
In 2020, we intended to progress nature-based solutions verified by recognised carbon credit standards. Carbon credits generated by high-quality 
nature-based projects may be used to offset emissions in line with the mitigation hierarchy of avoid, reduce and offset. 
▪ Over the LTIP performance cycle we have taken FID on 15 projects, well ahead of the 4-8 FID set as a performance indicator in 2020, reflecting 
both the growth in the market for carbon credits and the development of capability within Shell as the business matures.
▪ In 2020, we set a performance indicator to mature one carbon capture and storage project to post-FID. In 2020, we took FID on Northern Lights, 
our Norwegian CCS joint venture (Shell interest 33.3%). We continue to have a healthy number of projects we are developing on CCS at a 
global level. 
▪ By the end of 2022, our Quest project in Canada (Shell interest 10%) had captured and safely stored more than 7.5 million tonnes of CO
2 since it 
began operating in 2015. In Australia, the Gorgon project (Shell interest 25%, operated by Chevron), which started operating in August 2019, had 
stored more than 7 million tonnes of CO
2 by the end of 2022.
There are also a number of broader indicators of Shell’s progress in the energy transition that the REMCO considered when making its overall vesting determination.
During 2020, Shell: 
▪ Announced its target to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050.
▪ Published the Industry Associations Climate Review update, including Shell’s updated climate-related policy positions and our payments to keep industry 
associations. 
During 2021, Shell: 
▪ Launched its Powering Progress strategy to transition of our business to net-zero emissions, including targets to reduce the carbon intensity of energy products we 
sell by 6-8% by 2023, 9-12% by 2024, 9-13% by 2025, 20% by 2030, 45% by 2035 and 100% by 2050. 
▪ Offered an advisory vote on Shell’s energy transition strategy to our shareholders for the first time, achieving support of 89%. 
▪ Put in place a simpler, more cost-effective organisation needed to implement Powering Progress.
▪ Published the 2021 Industry Associations Climate Review, extending our coverage to 36 industry associations. 
▪ Formed more than 50 collaborations with other leading companies aiming to be at the forefront of the energy transition.
During 2022, Shell: 
▪ Completed the Simplification of Shell plc, aligning its tax residence with its country of incorporation and established a single line of shares, allowing Shell to 
respond to the challenges of the energy transition by managing its portfolio with greater agility.
▪ Published its first Energy Transition Progress Report and offered an advisory vote on Shell’s progress to our shareholders for the first time, achieving support of 
79.9%. 
Overall, the REMCO determined that the energy transition measure (accounting for 10% of the award) should vest at 180% of target.
The REMCO reviewed Shell's broader performance over the 
performance period (see page 192 for detailed discussion), and also 
reflected on the share price at award and on vesting, noting that the 
share price had increased by 24%, and that appreciation accounted 
for 16% of the total value of the CEO's LTIP at vest, and was satisfied 
that no windfall gain had arisen.
The REMCO decided that the LTIP outcome was consistent with the 
target opportunity and intended operation of the plan under the Policy 
and appropriate, and therefore no adjustment to the vesting outcome 
was required. Accordingly, the REMCO decided that the LTIP should 
vest at 81% of target (equivalent to 41% of maximum).
The overall LTIP vesting outcome, including an illustration of the 
impact of share price movements and accrued dividends, is set out 
below. The CEO's and CFO’s vested awards are subject to a further 
three-year holding period which extends beyond their tenure as 
Executive Director.
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
190 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
190
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 2020 LTIP vesting outcome
Consideration of 2022 final pay outcomes
In determining the final pay outcomes for 2022, the REMCO also considered the personal performance of the Executive Directors.
 Personal performance 
It has been an unprecedented period for the energy sector. The exceptionally strong financial performance in 2022 is attributable in part to 
the macro environment, but also, in the view of the REMCO, reflects the outstanding personal contributions and teamwork from management in 
recent years. Over the last three years, the Executive Directors have demonstrated strong and compassionate leadership navigating the Company 
through the pandemic and volatility in energy prices. They also implemented a new organisational structure (Project Reshape), simplified the share 
structure and aligned the Company’s tax residence with its country of incorporation to strengthen Shell’s competitiveness and accelerate both 
shareholder distributions and delivery of strategy to become a net-zero emissions energy company. 
CEO: Ben van Beurden
The REMCO acknowledges the fundamental role the CEO’s strategic and operational leadership has played in enabling Shell to achieve financial outcomes to deliver 
on our commitment to increase shareholder distributions, while we reduce net debt. Key successes are noted throughout this report and in particular in discussions of 
the 2022 annual bonus and 2020 LTIP vesting outcomes on pages 186 and 188. By the end of 2022, the CEO had led delivery of:
▪ Strong financial results with net income of $43 billion and Adjusted Earnings of $40 billion, and CFFO (including working capital) of $68 billion against plan 
targets of $40 billion, reflecting continuous high-grading of our upstream assets and the strength of our trading businesses;
▪ Delivery of $26 billion of shareholder distributions in 2022, representing a return, in absolute terms, to pre-pandemic levels (2019 was around $25 billion);
▪ Net debt at $45 billion, down from $79 billion at the end of 2019;
▪ Launching the Powering Progress strategy including Shell’s intent to become a net-zero emissions business and achieving 89% support in a shareholder advisory 
vote on the proposed energy transition strategy;
▪ Implementing a new organisational structure;
▪ Simplifying the share structure and aligning the Company’s tax residence with its country of incorporation allowing Shell to respond to the challenges of the energy 
transition by managing its portfolio with greater agility;
▪ Material upstream divestments and downstream portfolio rationalisation, as well as new acquisitions in direct support of our net-zero goals. These actions have 
protected and strengthened the balance sheet, enabling Shell to advance the Powering Progress strategy in a highly volatile macro environment.
The CEO has continued to play a leading role in the energy transition, both internally in driving performance against our strategic objectives and externally in 
directing conversations with policymakers, industry groups, shareholders and other key stakeholders towards the practical measures needed to transform the energy 
system. 
Under the CEO's personal leadership, Shell took decisive early action to announce its intent to withdraw from Russian oil and gas. The CEO has been strong and 
principled in his position, and the Company has worked hard to support the safety of our staff and contractors in Ukraine, Russia, and neighbouring countries. We 
also support relief efforts, and take action when we need to do so.
The CEO’s relentless focus on safety during the period has seen remarkable improvement in safety scores. The safety refresh, which focused on applying a learner 
mindset and psychological safety, has encouraged employees to learn from mistakes and successes and speak up freely.
People survey scores further increased during 2022, including the achievement of the best "employee engagement" result in the last 12 years and the highest ever 
"organisational leadership" and "team leadership" scores across Shell. 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
191 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Ben van Beurden
Sinead Gorman
200,589 x 81% = 
162,477 ordinary shares 
€3,858,831 
Vest ing outcome:  [A]
26,313 ordinary shares 
€772,687
 Acc rued
divi dends: [C]
162,477 x €5.62
€912,309
Change in
share price:  [B]
To tal LTIP Vesti ng: 
188,790 ordinary shares 
€5,543,827
£4,914,397 [D] 
22,500 x 81% =
18,225 ordinary shares
£ 362,058
Vest ing outcome:  [A]
2,988 ordinary shares
£77,804
Acc rued
divi dends:  [C]
18,225 x £ 6.17 
£ 112,430
Change in
share price:  [B] To tal LTIP Vesti ng: 
21,213 ordinary shares 
£ 552,291
[A] Based on the share price at award of €23.75 for Ben van Beurden and £19.87 for Sinead Gorman. For details of Jessica Uhl’s 2020 LTIP, see the "Payments to past Directors" section. 
[B] Calculated based on the opening share price on March 3, 2023 minus the share price at the date of award. For Ben van Beurden: €29.37 – €23.75 = €5.62;
 for Sinead Gorman: £26.04 – £19.87 = £6.17.       
[C] Based on the opening share price on March 3, 2023 of €29.37 for Ben van Beurden and £26.04 for Sinead Gorman.
[D] Converted from EUR to GBP using a spot exchange rate on March 3, 2023.
191
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

CFO: Jessica Uhl (until March 31, 2022); Sinead Gorman (April 1, 2022 onwards)
Maintaining discipline on capital, operating and lease expenditure and the implementation of an updated capital allocation framework to balance growth and 
shareholder distributions was a key focus for the CFO during a particularly turbulent period. The Company’s financial success during 2022 was underpinned by 
the finance function’s disciplined capital stewardship and the effective management of our financial framework, allocating higher cash flows from high commodity 
prices towards debt reduction, capex and shareholder distributions. Optimising business risk management has allowed us to respond with agility to the volatile 
energy market.
A key achievement over the last three years has undoubtedly been the successful delivery of the simplification of Shell plc. The successful completion of the 
establishment of a single line of shares, and the alignment of Shell’s tax residence with its country of incorporation in the UK was hugely complex and challenging, 
and the REMCO recognises the pivotal role that the CFO played in its success.
The CFO supported the CEO in managing Shell’s continued withdrawal from Russian hydrocarbons following an escalation in the war in Ukraine. This included 
external reporting, and managing the Company’s responses to fast-changing regulations and sanctions, and their impact on the Company’s ability to meet contractual 
obligations in the exit of our Russia ventures in our Upstream, Integrated Gas, and Downstream businesses. The CFO also oversaw the introduction of new segments 
of reporting (introduction of Renewables and Energy Solutions, Marketing, and Chemicals and Products segments), with improved external financial and operational 
quarterly disclosures, promoting transparency for shareholders and other stakeholders.
The CFO led delivery of publication of the Shell Energy Transition Strategy and enhanced climate change disclosures in the Annual Report, which is part of our 
continuing work to implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Tax contribution reporting has also been expanded to 
include total tax contribution data on 21 countries and a summary of key tax issues in relation to the energy transition.
A highlight from 2022 has been the digitalisation of internal financial planning processes, enabling a step change in the quality, process and experience of internal 
processes, in particular in forecasting and business planning.
The REMCO considered the single figure outcomes for the CEO and 
the CFO. It noted that the overall remuneration outcome was higher 
than last year for the CEO. The REMCO was satisfied that these single 
figure outcomes represented a fair level of remuneration. In finalising 
its remuneration decisions for 2022, the REMCO considered a range 
of factors, including:
▪ Shell’s performance in 2022 and over the LTIP performance period 
2020-2022 and the formulaic outcomes of the bonus and the LTIP 
performance condition; 
▪ The impact of fatalities on the formulaic scorecard outcome;
▪ Absolute and relative TSR performance over the period;
▪ A range of other factors that take account of Shell's performance 
beyond the formulaic outcomes of the variable pay structures, 
including safety, reputation, ethics and compliance, and feedback 
from the Audit Committee and the Safety, Environment and 
Sustainability Committee (SESCo);
▪ The macro-economic environment and wider stakeholder experience, 
and shareholders' expectations with regard to executive pay 
decision-making;
▪ The Executive Directors' remuneration compared with the variable 
pay outcomes for the general workforce;
▪ The alignment of the Executive Directors with the shareholder 
experience through their high shareholding requirements; 
▪ The Executive Directors' remuneration compared with historical 
outcomes; and
▪ The personal performance of the Executive Directors.
After reflecting on the above factors, the REMCO was satisfied that 
the Policy had operated as intended.
2022 LTIP
 Scheme interests awarded to Executive Directors in 2022 (audited)
In 2022, the Executive Directors were granted conditional share awards under the LTIP as set out in the table below. In approving the awards, 
the REMCO considered Shell's historical share price, including the share price over the prior year, and noted that the share price at grant was 
not lower than average historical levels for both Executive Directors and was higher than in 2021. The REMCO determined that the risk of 
windfall gain was limited, and therefore no adjustment was made to the award size.
Scheme 
interest type
Type of 
interest 
awarded
End of 
performance 
period Target award [A]
Potential amount vesting
Minimum performance
(% of shares awarded) [B]
Maximum performance (% of 
shares of the target award) [A]
LTIP Performance 
shares
December 31, 
2024
Ben van Beurden: 209,131 London-listed ordinary 
shares, equivalent to 3.0x base salary or £4,260,000
Sinead Gorman: 105,675 London-listed ordinary 
shares, equivalent to 2.7x base salary or £2,430,000
0 Maximum number of shares 
vesting is 200% of the shares 
awarded, before dividends.
[A] The award for Ben van Beurden was based on the closing market price on the date of grant, February 4, 2022, for ordinary shares of £20.370. The award for Sinead Gorman was based on 
the closing market price on the date of grant, May 6, 2022, for ordinary shares of £22.995. Jessica Uhl did not receive an LTIP award in 2022.
[B] Minimum performance relates to the lowest level of achievement, for which no reward is given.
The measures and weightings applying to LTIP awards made in 2022 
were: CFFO (20% weighting), TSR (20%), ROACE (20%), FCF (20%), 
and energy transition (20%).
Relative measures
The relative measures are based on our performance on a number of 
key financial and external measures against our closest comparators. 
For each measure, we rank growth based on the data points at the 
end of the performance period compared with those at the beginning 
of the period.
▪ As in prior years, the CFFO metric is based on point-to-point
growth in CFFO from the base year to the final year of the 
performance period.
▪ TSR is based on the change in share price plus dividends, and
is calculated in US dollars using a 90-day averaging period
(based on 45 days either side of the start and end date of the 
performance period).
▪ The ROACE metric is defined as point-to-point growth in ROACE 
from the base year to the final year of the performance period, 
where ROACE is net income as a percentage of the average capital 
employed for the period. Capital employed consists of total equity, 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
192 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
192
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

current debt and non-current debt. To facilitate comparison, our 
calculation of Shell’s ROACE for the purpose of the LTIP differs from 
that described in "Performance indicators" on page 27-28 in that 
there is no adjustment for after-tax interest expense.
Vesting under each relative measure is assessed independently, 
with the vesting outcome ranging from 0% to 200% of the target 
award in respect of the measure, in accordance with the following 
vesting schedule:
▪ Ranking first equals 200% vesting;
▪ Ranking second equals 150% vesting;
▪ Ranking third equals 80% vesting; and
▪ Ranking fourth or fifth equals 0% vesting.
Outperforming Shell’s closest competitors on key financial metrics is 
challenging. The REMCO is aware that vesting for median performance 
is generally set at a limit of 25% of maximum for other UK companies, 
but notes that this is typically applied against a larger comparator 
group. A vesting outcome of 80% for median performance (40% of 
maximum) in a small comparator group is considered appropriate by 
the REMCO. 
Absolute measures
FCF
The FCF performance condition supports the delivery of our cash flow 
priorities, which are to service and reduce debt, pay dividends, buy 
back shares and make future capital investments.
The performance targets for FCF will be set by reference to Shell’s 
annual operating plans, based on the aggregate of plan FCF targets 
over the three-year performance period. Given that FCF is heavily 
influenced by the volatility of oil and gas prices, the annual operating 
plans are updated each year to set an annual target to reflect a 
changing oil price premise. As a result, FCF targets are set annually 
for each annual operating plan and will be disclosed in aggregate 
retrospectively after the three-year period. The REMCO has considered 
setting a three-year target at the outset, but it believes such an 
approach would require adjustments for the oil and gas price premise 
and other matters at the end of the period, given the unpredictability 
and volatility in oil and gas prices. The REMCO has a long-standing
no-adjustments policy which leads it to believe that a more appropriate 
approach is to set the target based on the aggregation of the annual 
operating plans.
Under the FCF measure, achievement of threshold performance will 
result in 40% of the target award (20% of maximum) in respect of 
the FCF measure vesting, increasing to full vesting for achievement 
of outstanding performance. A straight-line vesting schedule will 
apply for performance between threshold and outstanding.
Energy transition
For the 2022 award, the energy transition element comprised a 
number of strategic measures that laid the foundation for Shell to 
achieve our longer-term ambitions in the energy transition. There are 
four main categories, a mix of leading and lagging indicators, each 
comprising a number of quantitative and qualitative performance 
indicators. Performance in each category is reviewed independently; 
together, it provides a guiding framework for the REMCO’s holistic 
assessment of energy transition performance over the three years. 
In determining the final vesting outcome between 0% and 200% of 
the target level, the REMCO takes account of Shell’s wide progress 
in the energy transition beyond the defined measures.
The four measures are as follows:
▪ Build a valuable power business: our ambition is to expand
our power business through selective investments in generation
and by reselling power generated by others;
▪ Grow new low- and zero-carbon energy product offerings: continue 
to invest in low- and zero-carbon products such as renewable 
electricity, hydrogen, biofuels and chemicals;
▪ Develop emission sinks: invest in carbon capture and storage 
opportunities, to reduce emissions where there are no currently 
scalable low-carbon alternatives, and in the development of high-
quality nature-based projects, to compensate for emissions; and
▪ Net Carbon Intensity: reduce NCI of the energy products Shell sells.
Progress in the energy transition is not expected to be linear because 
it will reflect the pace of change of society as a whole and the speed 
at which Shell makes progress with its strategic business objectives. 
As a result, performance indicators have been set as ranges. The 
quantitative performance indicators are commercially sensitive, so 
they will not be disclosed until the end of the performance period 
(or until they are no longer considered commercially sensitive).
 
Further information on the energy transition performance measure is provided 
on page 189.
 
For an update on Shell's energy transition, see the Shell Energy Transition 
Progress Report from www.shell.com.
TSR underpin
If Shell’s TSR ranking is fourth or fifth, the level of the award that can 
vest on the basis of the other measures will be capped at 50% of 
the maximum.
Performance update on FCF
2021 LTIP award 
At December 31, 2022, FCF performance was above target, 
with a strong outcome of $40.3 billion for 2021 (target $9 billion), 
and $46 billion for 2022 (target $18 billion). As one year of FCF 
performance remains, and 80% of the award is subject to relative 
and energy transition performance conditions, this does not reflect 
the potential vesting of the award.
2022 LTIP award 
At December 31, 2022, FCF performance was above target, based 
on $46 billion for 2022 (target $18 billion). As two years of FCF 
performance remain, and 80% of the award is subject to relative 
and energy transition performance conditions, this does not reflect 
the potential vesting of the award.
Executive Director changes
The previous CFO, Jessica Uhl, began working in the UK effective 
December 31, 2021. In early 2022, we announced that given her 
family circumstances, a long-term relocation to the UK was not 
sustainable, and the Company accelerated the managed succession 
plan and Jessica Uhl stepped down as CFO and as a Director of Shell 
plc on March 31, 2022, and left Group service on June 30, 2022. 
Details of Jessica Uhl's remuneration for 2022 may be found in the 
single figure table on page 185, and the "Payments for loss of office" 
and "Payments to past Directors" sections.
As disclosed in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report, Sinead 
Gorman was appointed to the Board as CFO effective April 1, 2022. 
On appointment, her salary was £900,000 per annum, and during 
2022, she received salary and benefits in line with the Policy, and 
her pension is aligned to the UK defined contribution pension 
arrangements offered to new Shell employees. Sinead Gorman was 
also eligible to receive a pro rata annual bonus of up to 240% of 
salary and a target LTIP award of 270% of salary, in line with the 
Policy. The remuneration paid to Sinead Gorman in respect of her 
service as an Executive Director during 2022 is disclosed in the 
single figure table. 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
193 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
193
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

As a result of a managed succession process led by the Chair of the 
Board, Ben van Beurden stepped down as CEO on December 31, 
2022. He will continue working as a full-time adviser to the Board, 
focusing on matters related to the cost-of-living crisis, energy security, 
and supporting advice to governments and regulators until June 30, 
2023, after which he will leave the Group. Ben van Beurden will be 
eligible for a pro-rated annual bonus in relation to the performance 
year 2023, and his outstanding LTIP awards will be reduced to reflect 
time served, and vest at the normal time subject to performance. Ben 
van Beurden will not receive a 2023 LTIP award. 
Ben van Beurden’s contract was a rollover of the Dutch end-of-
employment arrangements under which cessation of employment was 
by mutual agreement and not by notice. Accordingly, the 2020 Policy 
provided for a maximum loss of office payment of one year’s annual 
pay (base salary plus target bonus), in line with Dutch statutory
end-of-employment compensation. 
Following relocation to the UK, the Dutch statutory provisions are no 
longer the appropriate point of reference and in determining the 
appropriate compensation for loss of office the REMCO took into 
consideration UK market norms and acted in the best interests of Shell 
and shareholders as a whole. Ben van Beurden will receive a payment 
of £1,420,000, equivalent to one times base salary (which, for the 
avoidance of doubt, does not include target bonus), to be phased in 
six equal monthly instalments between July 1, 2023 and December 31, 
2023, and outstanding payments will be reduced by 50% if he secures 
a paid position (excluding Non-executive Directorships) in that period. 
While Ben van Beurden was under a four-month notice period as a 
legacy of his Dutch arrangements, his cessation of employment is by 
mutual agreement and therefore notice has neither been given nor 
received. Had cessation of employment been by notice, it would have 
commenced from the date of announcement of his stepping down as 
an Executive Director. Going forward, the 2023 Policy proposes 
alignment to UK market practice (i.e. a 12-month notice period).
Ben van Beurden and Jessica Uhl are subject to post-employment 
shareholding requirements for a period of two years post termination, 
and their share awards remain subject to holding periods.
As previously announced, Wael Sawan was appointed as CEO 
effective January 1, 2023. His salary is £1,400,000, and he receives 
benefits and pension (in the form of pension cash allowance of 20% 
of salary) in line with the Policy. He is eligible for a target annual bonus 
of 125% of salary, and he received a target award under the LTIP of 
300% of salary in February 2023.
 Single figure of total remuneration for Non-executive Directors (audited)
£ thousand
Fees Taxable benefits [A] Total
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
Dick Boer  153  144  4  —  157  144 
Neil Carson  171  165  2  —  173  165 
Ann Godbehere  184  182  7  1  191  183 
Euleen Goh  211  193  6  1  217  194 
Jane Holl Lute [B]  154  85  14  1  168  86 
Catherine J. Hughes  182  159  9  1  191  160 
Martina Hund-Mejean  154  142  3  1  157  143 
Sir Andrew Mackenzie [C]  785  500  4  15  789  515 
Bram Schot [D]  144  131  2  —  146  131 
Gerrit Zalm [E]  62  152  5  —  67  152 
[A] UK regulations require the inclusion of benefits where these would be taxable in the UK, on the assumption that Directors are tax residents in the UK. On this premise, the taxable benefits 
include the cost of a Non-executive Director's occasional business-required partner travel. Shell also pays for travel between home and the head office, where Board and Committee meetings 
are typically held, and related hotel and subsistence costs. For consistency, business expenses for travel between home and the head office are not reported as taxable benefits because for 
most Non-executive Directors this is international travel and hence would not be taxable in the UK. 
[B] Appointed as a Director with effect from May 19, 2021.
[C] Appointed Chair of the Board with effect from May 18, 2021.
[D] Appointed as a Director with effect from May 24, 2022.
[E] Stepped down as a Director with effect from May 24, 2022.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share
interests (audited)
Shareholding guidelines
The REMCO believes that Executive Directors should align their 
interests with those of shareholders by holding shares in Shell plc 
(the Company). The CEO is expected to build a shareholding with a 
value of 700% of base salary, and the CFO 500%. The shareholding 
requirement extends post employment, such that Executive Directors 
will be required to maintain their shareholding requirement, or the 
number of shares actually held if this is less than the shareholding 
requirement, for a period of two years post employment. 
Only unfettered shares count towards an Executive Director’s 
shareholding. Shares delivered that are subject to holding requirements 
also count towards the guidelines. The CEO and the CFO have five 
years from their respective appointment to the Board to achieve their 
respective shareholding requirements. 
There is a Company-sponsored nominee account which allows for 
restrictions to be applied on the sale or transfer of shares that are 
subject to holding periods. The restrictions remain in force beyond 
the Executive Director’s employment.
Non-executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares with a value 
equivalent to 100% of their fixed annual fee and to maintain that 
holding during their tenure.
Directors’ share interests 
The interests, in shares of the Company or calculated equivalents, 
of the Directors in office during 2022, including any interests of 
their connected persons, are set out in the table over the page.
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
194 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
194
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Directors’ share and scheme interests (audited)
 
Ordinary shares 
held at January 1, 
2022
Ordinary shares 
held at December 
31, 2022
Unvested and subject 
to performance 
conditions [A]
Shareholding 
guideline as % 
of salary
Current 
shareholding
as % of salary [B]
Executive Directors
Ben van Beurden  973,533  874,531  695,978  700 %  1433 %
Sinead Gorman  38,566 [C]  39,660  168,634  500 %  102 %
Jessica Uhl  299,283 [D]  342,099 [E]  94,183  500 % N/A
Non-executive Directors
Dick Boer  10,000  10,000 
Neil Carson  16,000  16,000 
Ann Godbehere  10,000 [F]  10,000 [F]
Euleen Goh  12,895  12,895 
Jane Holl Lute  5,002 [G]  6,808 [H]
Catherine J. Hughes  55,984 [I]  55,984 [I]
Martina Hund-Mejean  20,000 [J]  20,000 [J]
Sir Andrew Mackenzie  27,623  27,623 
Bram Schot [K]  —  — 
Gerrit Zalm  2,026  2,026 [L]
[A] Includes unvested long-term incentive awards and notional dividend shares accrued at December 31, 2022. Interests are shown on the basis of the original awards, which can vest at between 
0% and 200% based on performance. Dividend shares accumulate each year on an assumed notional LTIP award. Such dividend shares are disclosed and recorded on the basis of the 
number of shares conditionally awarded but, when an award vests, dividend shares will be awarded only in relation to vested shares as if the vested shares were held from the award date.
[B] Calculated using the £23.26 per share closing price on December 30, 2022, the last market day of 2022.
[C] As at April 1, 2022, the date of her appointment as CFO.
[D] Held as 35,201 ordinary shares and 132,041 ADS. Each ADS represents two ordinary shares.
[E] As at March 31, 2022, when she stepped down as CFO. Held as 78,017 ordinary shares and 132,041 ADS. Each ADS represents two ordinary shares.
[F] Held as 5,000 ADS. Each ADS represents two ordinary shares.
[G] Held as 2,501 ADS. Each ADS represents two ordinary shares.
[H] Held as 3,404 ADS. Each ADS represents two ordinary shares.
[I] Held as 50,984 ordinary shares and 2,500 ADS. Each ADS represents two ordinary shares.
[J] Held as 10,000 ADS. Each ADS represents two ordinary shares.
[K] On August 17, 2020, Bram Schot purchased 5,500 certificates Shell Turbo Long 6,9 BNP Paribas Markets (ISIN: NL0009558519) at a price of €5.37 per certificate. These certificates are 
cash settlement instruments the value of which is linked to the price of Shell shares. In this case, the ratio of the turbo is 1:1 and accordingly 5,500 certificates represent 5,500 Shell shares. As 
at January 16, 2023, the leverage is 1.30 but it fluctuates depending on the share price. If the share price increases, the leverage will decrease. The finance level is 6.38 and the stop-loss level 
is 6.9. The finance level is adjusted on the 15th day of every month. Finance costs are 4.91% on an annual basis. With a turbo long, there is a finance level and a stop-loss level. If the 
underlying share price drops below the stop-loss level, the turbo long is terminated. The investor then receives the value of the difference between the finance level and the level on which the 
counterparty, in this case BNP Paribas, can close the turbo. Take for example a turbo with a stop-loss level of 10 and a finance level of 8. When the underlying share price drops below 10, 
which is the stop-loss level, the buyer will still receive the amount 10-8=2. But if the share price would suddenly drop to 8 or below, the buyer will receive nothing and the total investment is 
lost. In most cases, the turbo would be terminated at the stop-loss level, and the buyer receives the amount of the difference between the finance level and the stop-loss level. The actual 
amount will be determined by BNP. In addition, on August 27, 2020, Bram Schot purchased 100 Leonteq Express Euro Denominated Certificates on ING, Shell, Unilever (ISIN: 
CH0470808913), with a nominal value of €1,000 each at a price of €515 per certificate. These certificates are cash settlement instruments of which payment of a conditional coupon 
depends for 1/3 on the development of the price of the Shell Shares on Euronext Amsterdam and, as such, are a financial instrument linked to the Shell shares. Both transactions took place 
before Bram Schot became a Director of the Company. On February 12, 2021, Bram Shot purchased (i) an additional 2,500 certificates Shell Turbo Long 6,9 BNP Paribas Markets (ISIN: 
NL0009558519) at a price of €7.69 per certificate; and (ii) an additional 50 Leonteq Express Euro Denominated Certificates on ING, Shell, Unilever (ISIN: CH0470808913), with a nominal 
value of €1,000 each at a price of €715 per certificate.
[L] As at May 24, 2022, when he stepped down as a Director.
The Directors share interests converted into ordinary shares or ADS, 
as appropriate, following the assimilation of Shell’s A and B shares 
into a single class of shares on January 29, 2022. 
The changes to Directors' shareholdings as at March 6, 2023
are as follows:
▪ Sinead Gorman's share interest increased by 23,669 ordinary 
shares after the delivery of the 2022 annual bonus shares and
the vesting of the 2020 LTIP award. 
▪ Andrew Mackenzie purchased 8,235 ordinary shares on
February 7, 2023.
▪ On February 6, 2023, Bram Schot disposed of the 150 Leonteq 
Express Euro Denominated Certificates on ING, Shell, Unilever 
(ISIN: CH0470808913), with a nominal value of €1,000 each
at a price of €1,007.70 per certificate.
Effective as of March 2, 2023, Cyrus Taraporevala has been 
appointed as a Non-executive Director. As at March 6, 2023,
he held 125 ADS. 
Effective as of January 1, 2023, Wael Sawan was appointed as 
an Executive Director. As at March 6, 2023, he holds 210,666 
ordinary shares.
At March 6, 2023, the Directors and Senior Management (pages 133 
and 142) of the Company beneficially owned, individually and in 
aggregate (including shares under option), less than 1% of Company 
shares. These shareholdings are not considered sufficient to affect
the independence of the Directors.
Dilution
In any 10-year period, no more than 5% of the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company may be issued or issuable under executive 
(discretionary) share plans adopted by the Company, or 10% when 
aggregated with awards under any other employee share plan 
operated by the Company. To date, no shareholder dilution has 
resulted from these plans, although it is permitted under the rules
of the plans, subject to these limits.
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
195 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
195
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Payments for loss of office (audited)
Jessica Uhl stepped down from the Board and her role as CFO with 
effect from March 31, 2022, and left Group service on June 30, 2022. 
She received a payment for loss of office of £921,000, equivalent to 
one times base salary. This was paid in 12 equal bi-weekly instalments, 
with the final payment made in December 2022, and would have 
been subject to mitigation in the event that she resumed a paid role 
in that period.
Jessica Uhl received a pro-rated annual bonus in relation to the 
performance year 2022 of £810,000. 50% of the bonus was delivered 
in cash and 50% was delivered in shares, subject to a three-year 
holding period which remains in force post termination. Jessica Uhl's 
2020 and 2021 LTIPs will be reduced on a pro rata basis for time 
served, and the extent of any vesting will be determined at the end 
of the performance period.
Payments to past Directors (audited)
Jessica Uhl's remuneration during the period April 1 to June 30, 2022 
is set out below:
▪ Base salary: there was no change to Jessica Uhl's salary during
this period, and she received £230,250.
▪ Pension: Jessica Uhl continued to participate in the US defined 
benefit plan.
Jessica Uhl received an LTIP award of 59,062 ADS in 2020, which 
has been pro-rated for time served. The pro-rated award vested at 81% 
of target based on performance to December 31, 2022. Therefore, 
46,365 ADS (including accrued dividends) vested on March 3, 2023, 
with a value at vesting of $2,847,724. A three-year holding period 
applies, which remains in force post termination.
Payments below £5,000 are not reported as they are considered 
de minimis.
TSR performance and CEO pay
Performance graph
The graph below compares the TSR performance of Shell plc over 
the past 10 financial years with that of the FTSE 100 Index. The Board 
regards this index as the most appropriate broad market equity index 
for comparison, following Shell’s headquarters move to the UK. 
Data shown is for the performance of RDS B shares prior to the 
assimilation of Shell’s shares into a single line of ordinary shares 
on January 29, 2022.
CEO pay outcomes
The table below the graphs sets out the single figure of total 
remuneration, the annual bonus payment and long-term incentive 
(LTI) vesting rates compared with the respective maximum opportunity, 
for the CEO for the past 10 years.
 
Historical TSR performance
Value of hypothetical £100 holding
Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
CEO Peter 
Voser Ben van Beurden
Single figure
of total remuneration (£000) [A] 7,183 19,510 [B] 4,049 7,046 7,811 17,817 8,746 5,197 6,344 9,698
Annual bonus award
against maximum opportunity 44% 94% 98% 66% 81% 79% 21% —% 64% 73%
LTI vesting against maximum 
opportunity 30% 49% 8% 42% 35% 95% 74% 45% 25% 41%
[A] Prior to 2022, the CEO’s remuneration was denominated in EUR. Each year’s single figure of total remuneration has been converted to GBP using the 12-month average exchange rates for 
the year.
[B] Ben van Beurden’s single figure for 2014 was impacted by the increase in pension accrual calculated under the UK reporting regulations and tax equalisation as a result of his promotion and 
prior assignment to the UK.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Directors and employees
As the Company does not have any direct employees, the table below compares the remuneration of the Executive and Non-executive Directors 
of Shell plc with an employee comparator group consisting of local employees in the UK, the Netherlands, and the USA. The local employee 
population of these countries is considered to be a suitable employee comparator group because: these are countries with a significant Shell 
employee base; a large proportion of senior managers come from these countries; and the REMCO considers remuneration levels in these 
countries when setting base salaries for Executive Directors. For the purposes of comparison, the change in employee remuneration is calculated 
by reference to the change in salary scale, benefits and annual bonus for a notional employee in each of the base countries, not by reference 
to the actual change in pay for a group of employees.
Taxable benefits are those that align with the definition of taxable benefits applying in the respective country. In line with the "Single figure of total 
remuneration for Executive Directors" table, the annual bonus is included in the year in which it was earned.
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
196 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Shell plc
b
a
FTSE 100
a
b
£50
£0
£100
£150
£200
Dec-13Dec-12 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16 Dec-17 Dec-18 Dec-19 Dec-20 Dec-22Dec-21
196
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Percentage change in remuneration of Directors and employees [A]
 
Salary/fees (% change) Benefits (% change) Annual bonus (% change)
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20
Employees [B] 2.4% 0.6% 3.0% (8.4%) 0% 0% (0.4%) N/A (100.0%)
Executive Directors 
Ben van Beurden 3.5% 0% 2.0% 3270.5% [C] 8.6% (23.7%) 17.7% N/A (100.0%)
Jessica Uhl [D] (74.1%) 0% 2.0% (47.4%) (22.8%) 28.1% N/A N/A (100.0%)
Sinead Gorman N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Non-executive Directors [E]
Dick Boer 6.3% 70.4% N/A N/A N/A N/A
Neil Carson 3.6% 4.3% 85.6% N/A N/A N/A
Ann Godbehere 0.8% 2.9% 15.8% 1286.7% N/A N/A
Euleen Goh 9.4% 11.4% 0.2% 520.3% N/A N/A
Jane Holl Lute 80.4% N/A N/A 1893.8% N/A N/A
Catherine J. Hughes 14.1% 2.8% (10.0%) 868.8% N/A N/A
Martina Hund-Mejean 8.6% 68.4% N/A 358.2% N/A N/A
Sir Andrew Mackenzie 57.0% 1473.0% N/A (69.3%) N/A N/A
Bram Schot 10.1% 300% N/A N/A N/A N/A
Gerrit Zalm [F] (59.0%) 0% 0% N/A N/A N/A
[A] In a number of instances the value for the preceding year was zero. In these cases, N/A is recorded.
[B] As Shell plc does not have any employees, the change in pay for an employee comparator group from the UK, USA and the Netherlands is shown. 
[C] Ben van Beurden's 2022 benefits include time-limited relocation-related benefits.
[D] Jessica Uhl stepped down as CEO effective March 31, 2022. The changes in remuneration shown for 2021-22 are based on a full year for 2021, and the period January 1 to March 31, 2022 
for 2022.
[E] Non-executive Directors do not receive any short-term incentives. The increases shown reflect the individuals’ appointment to the Board part-way through the prior year, or additional fees 
payable for joining Board Committees.
[F] Gerrit Zalm stepped down from the Board effective May 24, 2022. The changes in remuneration shown for 2021-22 are based on a full-year for 2021, and the period January 1 to May 24, 
2022 for 2022.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below sets out distributions to shareholders by way of 
dividends and share buybacks, and remuneration paid to or receivable 
by employees for the last five years, together with annual percentage 
changes.
 
Year
Dividends and share 
buybacks [A]
Spend on pay (all 
employees) [B]
$ billion
Annual 
change $ billion
Annual 
change
2022 25.8  1 8 3  % 14.0  1 6  %
2021 9.1  —  % 12.1  —  %
2020 9.1  ( 6 4 )  % 12.1  (8) %
2019 25.4  2 6  % 13.2  ( 1 )  %
2018 20.2  2 9  % 13.4  ( 6 )  %
[A] Dividends paid, which includes the dividends settled in shares via our Scrip Dividend 
Programme and repurchases of shares as reported in the "Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity". 
[B] Employee costs, excluding redundancy costs, as reported in Note 32 to the "Consolidated 
Financial Statements".
Spend on pay can be compared with the major costs associated with 
generating income by referring to the "Consolidated Statement of 
Income". Over the last five years, the average spend on pay was 5% of 
the major costs of generating income. These costs are considered to be 
the sum of: purchases; production and manufacturing expenses; selling, 
distribution and administrative expenses; research and development; 
exploration; and depreciation, depletion and amortisation.
Total pension entitlements (audited)
During 2022, Jessica Uhl accrued retirement benefits under a defined 
benefit plan. The pension accrued under this plan at March 31, 2022
is set out below.
 Accrued pension (audited)
 
Thousand $
Jessica Uhl [A] 1,247
[A] Jessica Uhl has an annual choice between two accrual formulas with different forms of 
benefits. One is in the form of a lifetime annuity and the other allows for a lump-sum 
payment. She elected to accrue benefits up to 2018 under the arrangement for a lump-sum 
payment, and the eventual lump-sum benefit is shown. From 2019, she elected to accrue 
benefits as a lifetime annuity. The value of this accrued benefit at March 31, 2022, was 
$13,429 per annum plus a lump sum of $391,530. She also has a deferred Dutch defined 
benefit pension plan, as a result of a prior Shell assignment on local Dutch terms and 
conditions. The age at which Jessica Uhl can receive any pension benefit without an 
actuarial reduction under this Dutch plan is 60. The value of the deferred pension benefit
is €3,587 per annum.
The age at which Jessica Uhl can receive any pension benefit without 
an actuarial reduction under her US pension plan is 65. Any pension 
benefits on early retirement are reduced using actuarial factors to 
reflect early payment. No payments were made in 2022 regarding 
early retirement or in lieu of retirement benefits.
After his relocation to the UK on December 31, 2021, Ben van Beurden 
became a deferred member of his Dutch defined benefit plan, and 
therefore did not accrue any pension benefit under a defined benefit 
plan during 2022. The increase in his accrued pension over the year 
is due only to indexation in line with inflation on his deferred pension, 
consistent with treatment for any other deferred member in the plan.
External appointments
Ben van Beurden served on the Supervisory Board of Daimler AG 
as a Non-executive Director in 2022, and Jessica Uhl served on the 
Board of Goldman Sachs Group as Non-executive Director in 2022. 
Sinead Gorman did not hold any Non-executive Director positions 
during 2022.
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
197 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
197
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Statement of voting at 2022 AGM
Shell’s 2022 AGM was held on May 24, 2022. The result of the poll 
in respect of Directors’ remuneration was as follows:
 Approval of Directors’ Remuneration Report
 
Votes Number Percentage
For  4,346,283,705  95.92 %
Against  184,753,614  4 . 0 8  %
Total cast  4,531,037,319 [A]  100.00 %
Withheld [B]  24,598,418 
[A] Representing 60.69 % of issued share capital. 
[B] A vote withheld is not a vote under UK law and is not counted in the calculation of the 
proportion of the votes for and against a resolution.
The result of the poll in respect of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
last approved at the 2020 AGM was as follows:
 Approval of Directors’ Remuneration Policy
 
Votes Number Percentage
For 3,705,707,055  92.91 %
Against 282,966,810  7 . 0 9  %
Total cast 3,988,673,865 [A]  100.00 %
Withheld [B] 24,979,832
[A] Representing 51.09% of issued share capital. 
[B] A vote withheld is not a vote under UK law and is not counted in the calculation of the 
proportion of the votes for and against a resolution.
 CEO pay ratio
 
Option
25
th
 percentile 
pay ratio
Median 
pay ratio
75
th
 percentile 
pay ratio
2022 A 134:1 80:1 50:1
Total pay and benefits:
Salary:
£72,632
£45,904
£121,847
£56,302
£192,995
£96,790
2021 A 97:1 57:1 37:1
Total pay and benefits:
Salary:
£65,123 
£43,550
 £111,912 
£68,238
£170,289 
£101,000
2020 A 93:1 57:1 38:1
Total pay and benefits:
Salary:
£55,584 
£49,117
£90,972 
£75,365
£136,007 
£118,291
2019 A 147:1 87:1 54:1
Total pay and benefits:
Salary:
£59,419 
£40,417
£100,755 
£56,721
£161,717 
£79,991
2018 A 202:1 143:1 92:1
Total pay and benefits:
Salary:
£88,112 
£53,528
£124,459 
£80,407
£193,027 
£96,074
Shell has chosen to use option A to calculate the CEO pay ratio in 
accordance with guidance from the UK government that this is the 
preferred approach and the most statistically accurate method for 
identifying the ratios. Under option A, a comparable single figure for all 
UK employees has been calculated in order to identify the employees 
whose pay and benefits are at the 25
th
, 50
th
 (median) and 75
th
 
percentiles for comparison with the CEO. Employee pay has been 
calculated based on the total pay and benefits paid in respect of 2022 
for all employees who were employed on December 31, 2022. For 
part-time workers and joiners in the year, pay and benefits have been 
annualised based on the proportion of their working time in the UK 
during the year. This is calculated with an approach consistent with the 
methodology for determining annual bonuses. The REMCO believes 
that this provides a fair and reasonable calculation of the pay ratios 
for Shell employees in the UK.
The ratio of the CEO’s pay to the median UK employee is 80. The 
global pay ratio, calculated by comparing the CEO's single figure 
with the average employee headcount cost, is 79. The ratio at median 
for 2022 is higher than for 2021, reflecting an increase in variable 
pay outcomes for the CEO. While variable pay outcomes have also 
increased for other UK employees, a higher proportion of the CEO’s 
remuneration is variable, meaning the pay ratio is higher in years of 
higher variable pay outcomes. Overall, the pay ratios are lower than 
in 2018 (the first year of reporting), reflecting reductions in the 
CEO bonus and LTIP opportunities over time, as well as changes in 
variable pay outcomes. The REMCO believes the CEO pay ratio for 
2022 is appropriate and consistent with Shell’s philosophy of pay 
for performance.
Directors’ employment arrangements and letters of 
appointment
Executive Directors are employed for an indefinite period. Non-
executive Directors, including the Chair, have letters of appointment. 
Details of Executive Directors’ employment arrangements can be found 
in the proposed Policy on page 208.
Further details of Non-executive Directors’ terms of appointment can be found in 
the "Other regulatory and statutory information" on page 211 and the 
"Governance framework" report on page 148.
Compensation of Directors and Senior Management
During the year ended December 31, 2022, Shell paid and/or accrued 
compensation totalling $53 million (2021: $48 million) to Directors and 
Senior Management for services in all capacities while serving as a 
Director or member of Senior Management, including $2 million (2021: 
$3 million) accrued to provide pension, retirement and similar benefits. 
The amounts stated are those recognised in Shell’s income on an 
IFRS basis. See Note 33 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements". 
Personal loans or guarantees were not provided to Directors or 
Senior Management.
Workforce engagement on remuneration matters
Workforce engagement
The Board’s view is that all Directors have a collective responsibility 
for workforce engagement, ensuring that employees’ voices are 
heard on all business matters, including pay, and that the Company 
communicates effectively to employees on our remuneration policies 
and practices. As discussed on pages 157-158, the Board and 
management regularly engage with the workforce through a range 
of formal and informal channels, including webcasts, town halls, 
team meetings, face-to-face gatherings, employee surveys, and 
online publications via the intranet. During live webcasts and other 
interactive sessions, employees have the opportunity to pose questions 
on any topic, including pay. The Board’s preference is to build on 
existing, long-standing channels of engagement for discussions 
around remuneration.
During the year, the Board reviewed the results of the 2022 Shell 
People Survey, and was pleased to note further improvements, 
including the achievement of the best "employee engagement" result in 
the last 12 years and the highest ever "organisational leadership" and 
"team leadership" scores across Shell. The Board was also pleased with 
the significant levels of employee engagement with intranet articles 
explaining the Powering Progress Share Award and EC Special 
Recognition Award, and how the refreshed Group scorecard 
connects with Shell’s strategic priorities.
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
198 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
198
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Wider employee context
The REMCO receives annual updates on workforce remuneration 
topics, including employees' views on pay matter; CEO pay ratio; UK 
gender and ethnicity pay gap information; planned general employee 
salary increases; and bonus scorecard and Performance Share Plan 
(PSP) outcomes. In addition, the REMCO receives ad hoc papers 
covering other pay matters periodically, e.g. a consideration of 
workforce remuneration policies and their alignment with culture.
Management understands that employees have been through a 
challenging period, and has recognised their efforts in various ways, as 
referred to in the Chair's Statement. In addition, at the beginning of the 
year, management reviewed the bonus scorecard outcome for 2021 
and determined to apply a discretionary uplift to the formulaic outcome 
for below-Board employees, to recognise financially the extraordinary 
lengths that colleagues have gone to. For the avoidance of doubt, 
the uplift was not applied to Executive Directors. The REMCO 
noted this decision as part of its review of workforce matters. 
These materials provide an important backdrop for the REMCO 
when making judgements on the design and award of Executive 
Director remuneration.
Shell adheres to its fair pay principles in all remuneration-related 
matters. Pay in Shell is market-competitive, free from bias, and provides 
security to our employees. Shell sets clear performance expectations, 
gives employees the opportunity to share in Shell's success through a 
variety of variable pay schemes, and is transparent and clear in its 
communication of remuneration. For more information, visit the 
"Human Rights" section of www.shell.com.
How executive remuneration aligns with wider Company pay policy
Executive remuneration structures in Shell are strongly aligned with the structures for the broader workforce, as set out in the table below.
 
Element Comparison of Executive Director and wider workforce arrangements
Salary The Executive Directors’ salaries are reviewed with reference to the factors set out in the Policy, against defined comparator groups. The market-
competitiveness of wider workforce salaries is assessed at a base country level.
Pension and 
benefits
The Executive Directors’ pension benefits are aligned with those offered to new employees in the UK. Shell does not operate separate executive 
pension arrangements. All Group employees participate in the relevant pension plan for their base country based on their date of joining.
The Executive Directors are eligible to receive the same standard benefits available to the broader workforce.
Annual
bonus
The Group scorecard applicable to Group employees is identical to that applicable to Executive Directors in terms of performance measures, 
weightings, and targets. For the wider workforce, an additional multiplier applies based on individual performance during the year. No individual 
multiplier applies to Executive Directors, and further, 50% of the bonus is paid in shares, and the bonus is subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Long-term 
incentives
Executive Directors and around 150 senior executives participate in the LTIP on the same terms. Executive Directors’ LTIP awards are subject to a three-
year holding period. A further around 16,500 employees participate in the PSP; 50% of the performance conditions are the same as those for the LTIP.
Shareholding 
guidelines
The Executive Directors have the highest shareholding guidelines in the Company, which are set at 700% and 500% of salary for the CEO and the 
CFO, respectively. These guidelines continue post termination for a period of two years.
Shareholding guidelines extend deep into the organisation, to the senior manager level (75% of salary). Employees are required to achieve their 
individual guideline within a specified timeframe, as is the case for Executive Directors.
Statement of planned implementation of Policy in 2023
A summary of how the proposed Policy will be applied to Directors’ 
remuneration for 2023 is set out below.
Executive Directors
Comparator group
The current benchmarking comparator group consists of the other oil 
majors (BP, Chevron, ExxonMobil, and TotalEnergies) and a selection 
of major Europe-based companies. The other oil majors are included in 
the comparator group as these represent our closest direct competitors 
operating in similar market conditions. The Europe-based companies 
are selected based on their size, complexity and global reach. For 
2023, the REMCO has decided to replace BHP with Glencore. 
BHP delisted from the LSE and was therefore no longer considered a 
European company for the purpose of the peer group, and Glencore 
was selected as a replacement given its similarity to Shell in terms of 
size, sector and complexity (see table to the right). The REMCO retains 
the right to alter the comparator group as it sees fit in order to ensure 
it remains an appropriate and relevant benchmark.
 2023 European comparator group
 
Allianz Diageo Rio Tinto
AstraZeneca Glencore Roche
BAT GSK Siemens
Bayer Nestle Unilever
Daimler Novartis Vodafone
The REMCO uses benchmark data from these companies only 
as a guide to the competitiveness of the remuneration packages. 
The REMCO does not seek to position our remuneration at any 
defined point against the comparator data.
Salaries
Wael Sawan was appointed as CEO on January 1, 2023, on a salary 
of £1,400,000. No increases are anticipated during 2023.
Effective January 1, 2023, Sinead Gorman received an increase 
of 2.8% and her salary for 2023 is £925,000.
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
199 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
199
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

In reviewing the CFO's salary, the REMCO carefully considered 
the external environment, and the increases provided to the general 
workforce in the key markets of the UK, the USA, and the Netherlands 
(average 5.8%). The CFO's increase for 2023 was positioned 
below this level and the REMCO recognised the "multiplier effect 
on total remuneration".
The REMCO also paid close attention to the benchmarking analysis 
from the defined comparator groups. No specific benchmark position 
is defined, but the REMCO was satisfied that the positioning was 
appropriate against the benchmark groups following the increases. 
Annual bonus
The REMCO reviewed the structure of the annual bonus scorecard as 
part of its comprehensive review of the Policy. The REMCO considered 
that the scorecard remained well aligned with our strategic and 
operational priorities, and no changes are proposed for 2023.
The performance measures, weightings and link to strategy for the 
2023 performance year are set out below. They remain unchanged 
from 2022. 
 
See page 187 for further details of the performance measures.
 
2023 annual bonus measures, weightings,
and link to strategy
Scorecard targets will be disclosed in the subsequent Directors’ 
Remuneration Report when they are no longer deemed to be 
commercially sensitive.
Long-term Incentive Plan
On February 3, 2023, a conditional award of performance shares 
under the LTIP was made to the Executive Directors resulting in 
173,985 Shell plc shares being conditionally awarded to Wael Sawan 
and 103,458 to Sinead Gorman. The award had a face value of 300% 
(maximum performance outcome 600%) of the base salary for the 
CEO and 270% (maximum performance outcome 540%) of the 
base salary for the CFO, excluding potential share price appreciation 
and dividends.
Performance is measured over the three-year period January 1, 2023 
to December 31, 2025. The performance measures, weightings and 
link to strategy for the 2023 award are set out below.
 2023 LTIP measures and vesting schedule
 
Further details of the energy transition performance condition are set out over 
the page.
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
200 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Performance measure Weighting
Financial delivery 35%
Operational excellence 35%
Shell’s journey in 
the energy transition 15%
Safety 15%
Link to strategy 
Financial delivery
 ■ Cash flow from 
operating activities (35%)
Supports our financial priority to generate 
cash to fund shareholder distributions and 
capital investment.
Operational excellence
 ■ Asset management 
excellence (15%) 
 ■ Project delivery 
excellence (10%)
 ■ Customer excellence (10%)
Underpins delivery of our financial 
framework and ambitions to progress 
in the energy transition.
Shell’s journey in 
the energy transition
 ■ Selling lower-carbon 
products (5%)
 ■ Reducing our emissions (5%)
 ■ Partnering to 
decarbonise (5%)
Drives focus on the business transformations 
needed to succeed in the energy transition.
Safety (15%)
 ■ Serious Injury and 
Fatality Frequency (7 .5%)
 ■ Tier 1 and 2 process 
safety (7 .5%)
Drives an ongoing focus on personal 
and process safety.
Performance measure Weighting
Cash generation [A] 25%
TSR [A] 25%
Organic free cash flow [B] 25%
Energy transition [B] 25%
[A]  Relative measures [B]  Absolute measures
Link to strategy
Vesting schedule 
(% of initial LTIP award)
Cash generation (defined as 
CFFO/average capital employed)
Measurement of Shell’s ability to generate 
the top-line cashflows to finance investment 
in our business and shareholder distributions.
1st – 200%
2nd – 150%
3rd – 80%
4th or 5th – 0%
Performance ranked against 
the other energy majors: BP, 
Chevron, ExxonMobil and 
TotalEnergies.
TSR
Assessment of actual value created for 
shareholders.
Organic free cash flow
Recognition of the importance of generating 
cash after net capital expenditure to service 
and reduce debt, pay dividends, buy back 
shares and make future capital investments.
Maximum – 200%
Target – 100%
Threshold – 40%
Below  threshold – 0%
OFCF targets are set 
annually for each annual 
operating plan.
Energy transition 
Measures focused on the strategic business 
transformations that will seek to enable 
long-term success in the energy transition. 
The REMCO will assess 
progress against the NCI 
target and Shell’s longer-term 
goals for each strategic theme 
when making the vesting 
decision for each LTIP cycle.
TSR underpin
If TSR is in fourth or fifth, vesting is capped at 50% of maximum.
Holding period
Three-year holding period, which remains in force post tenure.
200
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Performance framework for 2023-2025 LTIP Energy 
Transition performance condition
Quantitative NCI target
Net Carbon Intensity (NCI)
assessed as percentage reduction 
in the target year vs. the 2016 
base year.
Target is 9-13% reduction 
compared against the 2016
base year.
Supporting strategic themes
Reducing Scope
1 & 2 emissions
demonstrate progress in reducing 
Scope 1 & 2 emissions.
Example performance indicators 
include progress towards meeting 
Shell’s public commitment
to reduce net Scope 1 & 2 
emissions by 50% by 2030, 
relative to 2016.
Building a renewable
power business
demonstrate progress in increasing 
the renewable generation 
capacity available to Shell for 
long-term market sales.
Example performance indicators 
include progress against the 
business plan and long-term 
power strategy.
Growing new lower-carbon 
energy offerings
demonstrate progress in
(i) developing advanced biofuels 
and lower-carbon fuels 
technology, and (ii) implementing 
Shell's hydrogen strategy.
Example performance indicators 
include (i) progress with 
technology readiness for 
investment in commercial-scale 
advanced biofuels and lower-
carbon fuels projects, and (ii) 
progress towards investment 
decisions on integrated blue 
hydrogen projects and world-
scale hydrogen export hubs.
Developing emission
sinks and offsets
demonstrate progress in (i) 
building and expanding nature-
based solutions demand positions, 
and (ii) implementing the carbon 
capture, utilisation and storage 
strategy.
Example performance indicators 
include (i) progress towards 
Shell’s target of retiring up to 
120 mtpa of credits by 2030, 
and (ii) progress with 
investment decisions for carbon 
capture, utilisation and storage 
projects.
As the 2023 LTIP awards to Executive Directors were granted prior 
to the shareholder vote on the proposed Policy, the TSR underpin will 
apply in the usual way: if Shell's TSR ranking is fourth or fifth, the level 
of the award that can vest on the basis of the other measures will be 
capped at 50% of the maximum.
Discretion, malus and clawback
Variable-pay elements are subject to adjustment (malus) and recovery 
(clawback) provisions. The REMCO may adjust an award, for example 
by lapsing part or all of it, reducing the number of shares which would 
otherwise vest, by imposing additional conditions on it, or imposing a 
new holding period or applying clawback.
Please refer to the proposed Policy for a full description of the 
circumstances under which discretion, malus and clawback might 
be applied to a variable pay award. 
Service contracts
Please refer to page 208 in relation to the notice periods of Executive 
Director service contracts.
Pension
Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman are eligible to participate in 
the defined contribution UK Shell Pension Plan with an employer 
contribution rate of up to 20% of salary, or take this as a pension cash 
alternative. They have chosen the latter. The UK Shell Pension Plan 
or associated pension cash alternative is available to new Shell 
employees in the UK at the same contribution levels.
 
Further details of Executive Director pension arrangements can be found on 
page 197.
Benefits 
In consideration of his appointment as CEO in 2023, Wael Sawan 
received support for his family's relocation to the UK in line with the 
provisions of Shell's International Mobility policies. In addition, in 
relation to their relocation to the UK, Wael Sawan and Sinead 
Gorman will continue to receive housing allowances until the 
end of 2023.
Executive Directors are provided with a chauffeured car for business 
travel, including home-to-office commuting. Other benefits, such as 
medical and other risk benefits are in line with those provided to 
the general workforce. 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
201 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
201
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Non-executive Directors’ fees
 Non-executive Directors’ fees 2023
£ Other fees
Chair of the Board 785,000 Non-executive Directors receive an 
additional fee of £4,000 for any 
Board meeting involving 
intercontinental travel – except for 
one meeting a year held in a location 
other than London.
Non-executive Director 120,000
Senior Independent Director 49,000
Audit Committee Chair [A] 53,000
Member 22,000
Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee Chair [A] 31,000
Member 15,000
Nomination and Succession Committee Chair [A] 22,000
Member 11,000
Remuneration Committee Chair [A] 36,000
Member 15,000
[A] The chair of a committee does not receive an additional fee for membership of that committee.
The Company Chair fee is determined by the REMCO, and for 2023 
is unchanged from the previous level of £785,000. The Chair of 
the Board does not receive any additional fee for chairing the 
Nomination and Succession Committee or attending any other 
Board Committee meeting.
The Non-executive Directors receive a basic fee. There are additional 
fees for the Senior Independent Director, a Board Committee chair or 
a Board Committee member, and for most Board meetings involving 
intercontinental travel. Business expenses (including transport between 
home and office and occasional business-required partner travel) 
and associated tax are paid or reimbursed by Shell. 
The Board reviews Non-executive Directors’ fees periodically to ensure 
that they are aligned with those of other major listed companies. 
During these reviews the Board uses the largest 30 companies by 
market capitalisation listed on the FTSE and the European comparator 
group as its primary points of reference. The last general review was 
in 2022. Fees will remain unchanged for 2023. 
Governance
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
202 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
202
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy sets out:
▪ A summary of proposed changes to the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy, page 203;
▪ Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy, page 204; and
▪ Non-executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy, page 209.
This section describes the Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the Policy) 
which, subject to shareholder approval at the 2023 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM), will come into effect from May 23, 2023, and will 
be effective until the 2026 AGM, unless a revised Policy is proposed 
by the Company and approved by shareholders in the meantime.
The principles underpinning the REMCO’s approach to executive 
remuneration are the foundation for everything we do, and are:
▪ Alignment with Shell’s strategy and sustainability: the Executive 
Directors’ compensation package should promote the long-term, 
sustainable success of Shell, and be strongly linked to the 
achievement of stretching targets that are indicators of the
execution of Shell’s strategy; 
▪ Pay for performance: the majority of the Executive Directors’ 
compensation, (excluding benefits and pensions), should be linked 
directly to Shell’s performance through variable pay instruments; 
▪ Competitiveness: remuneration levels should be determined by 
reference internally against Shell’s Senior Management and 
externally against companies of comparable size, complexity
and global scope; 
▪ Long-term creation of shareholder value: Executive Directors should 
align their interests with those of shareholders by holding shares
in Shell;
▪ Consistency: the remuneration structure for Executive Directors 
should generally be consistent with the remuneration structure for 
Shell’s Senior Management. This consistency builds a culture of 
alignment with Shell’s purpose and a common approach to sharing 
in Shell’s success; and
▪ Risk assessment: decisions should be made in the context of the Shell 
General Business Principles and Code of Conduct. The remuneration 
structures and rewards should meet risk assessment tests to ensure 
that shareholders’ interests are safeguarded and that inappropriate 
actions are avoided.
The Executive Directors’ remuneration structure is made up of a fixed 
element of basic pay and two variable elements: the annual bonus 
(50% delivered in shares) and the Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP). 
Variable pay outcomes are conditional on the successful execution of 
the operating plan in the short term, and the delivery of strategic goals 
and financial and share price outperformance over the longer term.
The award of shares under the bonus and LTIP, along with significant 
shareholding requirements, are intended to ensure executives have a 
sizeable shareholding in the Company and experience the same 
outcomes as our shareholders.
During 2022, the REMCO reviewed the Policy to ensure that it 
continued to support Shell’s strategy. The REMCO determined that the 
current Policy remained appropriate in most respects, and required 
changes only to reflect the transition of our Executive Directors to the 
UK to align with market practice and for simplification. For each area 
of the Policy, the REMCO reviewed the alignment with strategy, market 
practice, the corporate governance environment, and feedback from 
shareholders, and additionally spent time updating the selection and 
calibration of performance metrics in variable pay schemes. Any 
potential conflict of interest was mitigated by the independence of the 
REMCO members and the REMCO Terms of Reference. The REMCO 
also considered the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
when reviewing the Policy, and sought to reflect the principles of clarity, 
simplicity, risk management, predictability, proportionality and 
alignment with culture.
A summary of the main changes to the Policy is set out below.
Remuneration 
element Proposed changes to Policy Rationale for the change
Executive Directors
Base salary ▪ Salary cap amended from €2 million to £2 million. ▪ To reflect the transition of the Executive Directors to the UK.
Pension ▪ Move from base country arrangements to defined contribution pension 
arrangements applicable to the wider Shell workforce in the UK.
Severance 
policy
▪ New service contracts under which both the employee and the employer can 
terminate employment by giving 12 months’ written notice, replacing the 
previous provision which reflected Dutch statutory provisions.
Annual bonus 
and LTIP rules
▪ REMCO discretion to suspend annual bonus or share award vesting pending 
the outcome of an investigation in exceptional circumstances.
▪ To allow sufficient time for investigation, as required.
Leaver 
treatment
▪ REMCO discretion to waive remaining bonus/LTIP holding period in 
exceptional circumstances (primarily death).
▪ To align with market practice.
TSR underpin
in LTIP
▪ TSR underpin to be removed from the LTIP. ▪ To simplify the plan and align with market practice.
Non-executive Directors
Retirement gift ▪ Maximum value amended from €300 to £300. ▪ To reflect the transition to the UK.
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
203 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
203
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy table
 
Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity Operation and performance measurement
Base salary
Provides a fixed level of earnings to 
attract and retain Executive 
Directors.
£2,000,000 Reviewed annually with adjustments effective from January 1.
In making salary determinations, the REMCO will consider:
▪ the market positioning of the compensation packages;
▪ comparison with Senior Management salaries; 
▪ the employee context, and planned average salary increase for other employees 
across the UK, the Netherlands, and the USA;
▪ the experience, skills and performance of the Executive Director, or any change in the 
scope and responsibility of their role;
▪ general economic conditions, Shell’s financial performance, and governance trends; 
and
▪ the impact of salary increases on pension benefits and other elements of the package.
Benefits
Provides benefits, typically in line 
with those applicable to the wider 
workforce, in order to attract and 
retain Executive Directors.
Determined by the nature of the 
benefit itself and costs of provision, 
and may depend on external 
factors, e.g. insurance costs.
Typical benefits include car allowances, home-to-office transport, risk benefits (for 
example ill health, disability or death-in-service), security provision, and employer 
contributions to insurance plans (such as medical) including Directors’ liability insurance. 
In the event an international relocation is required either prior to appointment or while 
appointed, Shell’s mobility policies may apply and the REMCO may offer appropriate 
provisions in respect of items including, but not limited to, relocation, assistance with 
visa/immigration/tax issues, and tax return support. It may also provide housing and 
education assistance for a specified period of time, expected to be no more than two 
years. Tax equalisation related to expatriate employment prior to Board appointment, or 
in other limited circumstances to offset double taxation, may also be provided.
Precise benefits will depend on the Executive Director’s specific circumstances and may 
include any tax liabilities relating to business-related benefits such as in the case of 
security or relocation provisions. 
The REMCO may adjust the range and scope of the benefits offered in the context of 
developments for other employees in the country which the Executive Director is based. 
Personal loans or guarantees are not provided to Executive Directors.
Pension
Provides a competitive defined 
contribution pension provision 
applicable to the wider workforce 
in the UK to attract and retain 
Executive Directors.
Determined by the rules of the 
defined contribution UK pension 
arrangements.
Executive Directors’ retirement benefits are maintained in line with those of the wider 
Shell workforce in the UK. Only base salary is pensionable, unless plan regulations 
specify otherwise and cannot legally be disapplied. The rules of the relevant plan detail 
the pension benefits which members can receive. The REMCO retains the right to amend 
the form of any Executive Director’s pension arrangements where appropriate, for 
example in response to changes in legislation to ensure the original objective of this 
element of remuneration is preserved.
New Executive Directors based in the UK, whether internal appointees or external hires, 
will be provided with the defined contribution arrangement, applicable to the wider Shell 
workforce in the UK, which currently includes the flexibility to take this as a pension cash 
alternative.
Annual bonus
Rewards the delivery of short-term 
operational targets as derived from 
Shell’s operating plan.
Aligns the interests of Executive 
Directors and shareholders, and 
supports retention, through long-
term holding in shares.
Target bonus: 125% of base 
salary.
Maximum bonus: 200% of target.
▪ The bonus is determined by reference to performance from January 1 to December 31 
each year.
▪ Annual bonus = base salary x target bonus % x scorecard result (0–2).
▪ The scorecard is reviewed each year, taking account of Shell’s operating plan, to 
ensure that the performance measures, targets and weightings are appropriate. 
Performance measures typically relate to financial delivery, operational excellence, 
progress in the energy transition, and safety, with indicative weightings of 35%, 35%, 
15% and 15% respectively. This helps to balance short-term financial performance with 
the achievement of a broader set of strategic and operational objectives to support 
long-term shareholder value creation. The REMCO retains the flexibility to adjust 
performance measures, weightings and targets on a year-by-year basis, within the 
terms of the Policy.
▪ Scorecard targets are disclosed on a retrospective basis in a subsequent Annual 
Report on Remuneration, when they are no longer deemed commercially sensitive.
▪ To reinforce alignment with shareholder interests, 50% of any bonus earned is 
delivered in cash and 50% is delivered in net-of-tax shares. The shares are subject to a 
three-year holding period from the end of the performance period the award relates 
to, which applies beyond an Executive Director’s tenure. The REMCO retains 
discretion to waive any part of this holding period in exceptional circumstances 
(primarily death).
▪ The bonus is subject to malus provisions before it is delivered, and to clawback 
thereafter for a period of three years.
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
204 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
204
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy table continued
 
Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity Operation and performance management
Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Rewards longer-term value 
creation linked to Shell’s strategy. 
The measures focus on financial 
performance, capital discipline 
and the achievement of Shell’s 
ambitions in the energy transition.
Aligns the interests of Executive 
Directors and shareholders, and 
supports retention through long-term 
holding in shares.
Target award: 300% of base salary. 
Awards may vest at up to 200% of 
the shares originally awarded, plus 
dividends.
▪ Award levels are determined in respect of any financial year by the REMCO 
within the Policy maximum.
▪ Awards may vest at between 0% and 200% of the initial award, depending on 
Shell’s performance, assessed over a three-year performance period, on an 
absolute basis and/or on a relative basis against an appropriate comparator 
group.
▪ Performance measures and weightings are reviewed and set by the REMCO at 
the beginning of each three-year performance period, taking account of Shell’s 
strategic priorities. 
▪ Notional dividends accrue over the vesting period in respect of awards that vest.
▪ To reinforce alignment with shareholder interests, net of tax shares delivered from 
vested awards are subject to a three-year holding period from the end of the 
performance period the award relates to, which applies beyond an Executive 
Director’s tenure. The REMCO retains discretion to waive any part of this holding 
period in exceptional circumstances (primarily death).
▪ Dividends accrue over the vesting period in respect of awards that vest.
▪ The award is subject to malus provisions before vesting, and to clawback 
provisions thereafter for a period of three years.
Discretion, malus and clawback
Enables the management of risks 
from behaviour-based incentive 
schemes and the REMCO to manage 
the range of pay outcomes.
Adjustment events exist for the 
purposes of applying malus and 
clawback.
The REMCO retains discretion to 
adjust pay outcomes.
▪ The REMCO retains the discretion to adjust mathematical outcomes of the annual 
bonus scorecard and/or LTIP vesting for any Executive Director if and to the 
extent that it considers this appropriate at their sole discretion.
▪ The REMCO may adjust pay outcomes for the purposes of managing quantum. 
This would be done at the REMCO’s discretion after considering single figure 
outcome for the year, taking into account Shell’s performance, the operation of 
the remuneration structures and any other relevant considerations.
▪ In exceptional circumstances, the REMCO may determine that the vesting of an 
annual bonus or a share award should be suspended pending the outcome of an 
investigation. The suspension may be for such period as the REMCO considers 
sufficient to permit the investigation to be concluded.
▪ The use of any discretion will be disclosed and explained.
Shareholding requirements
Aligns interests of Executive Directors 
with those of shareholders by 
creating a connection between 
individual wealth and Shell’s long-
term performance.
Shareholding (% of base salary):
▪ CEO: 700%
▪ CFO: 500%
▪ Executive Directors are expected to build up their shareholding to the required 
level over a period of five years from appointment and, once reached, to 
maintain this level for the full period of their appointment. The intention is for the 
shareholding guideline to be reached through retention of vested shares from 
share plans. The REMCO will monitor progress and retains the ability to adjust 
the guideline in special circumstances on an individual basis.
▪ In the event of an increase to the guideline, this timeframe is increased by one 
year for every additional multiple of salary required, subject to a maximum of five 
years from the date of the change. 
▪ The Executive Director will be required to maintain their shareholding requirement 
(or existing shareholding if lower) for a period of two years from the date they 
cease to be an employee. Post-termination holding is enforced through the 
arrangements put in place with the employee on termination.
▪ In the event that another Executive Director joins the Board, the REMCO will 
determine their shareholding requirement level, which will not be less than 200% 
of salary, in line with corporate governance best practice.
▪ Vested shares from incentive plans (including bonus and LTIP shares subject to 
holding period) count towards the requirement. The REMCO monitors individual 
progress and retains the ability to adjust the guideline in special circumstances on 
an individual basis.
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
205 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
205
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Notes to the Policy table
Executive Directors outside of the UK
In respect of salary, benefits and pension, in the event that an Executive 
Director is based outside of the UK, the REMCO reserves the right to 
determine the individual's remuneration arrangements in line with their 
base or host country, within the spirit of the Policy.
Payments from previously agreed remuneration arrangements
The REMCO reserves the right to make any remuneration payments 
where the terms of the payment were agreed (i) before the Policy
came into effect, or (ii) at a time when the relevant individual was
not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the REMCO,
the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming
a Director of the Company. The REMCO also reserves the right to
honour pre-existing contractual obligations in accordance with the 
terms of the service contract and relevant incentive plan. Details
of any such payments will be set out in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration as they arise.
Selection of performance measures
For the 2023 performance year, the annual bonus scorecard will 
consist of financial delivery (35%), operational excellence (35%), 
progress in the energy transition (15%), and safety (15%). Targets are 
derived from the annual business plan. These measures are designed 
to drive focus on the financial and operational performance critical to 
our success in delivering our Powering Progress strategy. The REMCO 
believes it is important for annual variable pay to remain balanced, 
with short-term operational components complementing the LTIP’s 
focus on longer-term financial and strategic outcomes. The same 
annual bonus scorecard applies to the majority of Group employees, 
supporting consistency of remuneration and alignment of objectives 
across employees and senior management.
For 2023 LTIP awards, performance will be assessed based on 75% 
financial metrics (relative CFFO divided by average capital employed, 
relative TSR, absolute OFCF, equally weighted) and 25% on a strategic 
measure focused on Shell's journey in the energy transition. These 
metrics are designed to support our strategic ambition of accelerating 
our transition to be a net-zero emissions business while creating value 
for our shareholders.
For the relative measures, 200% vests for first position, 150% 
for second, 80% for third, and 0% for ranking fourth or fifth. The 
comparator group consists of four of the strongest companies in our 
industry (BP, Chevron, ExxonMobil and TotalEnergies). Outperforming 
Shell's closest competitors on key financial metrics is challenging. 
A vesting outcome of 80% of target (40% of maximum) for median 
performance in a small comparator group is considered appropriate 
by the REMCO. The REMCO is aware that vesting for median 
performance is generally set at a limit of 25% of maximum for other 
UK companies. However, these are typically applied against a larger 
comparator group. Commentary on the REMCO's consideration of the 
constituents of the comparator group is set out in the 2022 introduction 
from the REMCO Chair.
To simplify the plan and align with market practice, it is proposed that 
the underpin be removed from the plan effective from 2024 awards.
Discretion
There are a number of specific areas in which the REMCO may 
exercise discretion, including: 
▪ To review the specific measures, weightings and targets for the 
annual bonus scorecard and LTIP award annually and adjust 
accordingly to evolve with Shell’s strategy and circumstances to 
ensure that the targets remain stretching but realistic. If the REMCO 
were to propose any material changes to the LTIP performance 
metrics, it would consult with major shareholders; and
▪ To adjust mathematical variable pay outcomes if and to the extent 
that it considers this appropriate. This power to adjust the outcomes 
is broad and includes adjusting the outcomes to zero. For example, 
an adjustment might be made if the REMCO considers:
– The mathematical outcomes do not reflect the wider financial 
or non-financial performance of the Company or the participant 
over the performance period;
– The LTIP vesting percentage is not appropriate in the context of 
circumstances that were unexpected or unforeseen at award; and 
– There is any other reason why an adjustment is appropriate. 
It is not anticipated that discretion would be used for upwards 
adjustment. If, in exceptional circumstances, it was considered, this 
would be done only after consultation with major shareholders.
Performance outcomes and/or share price movements make it difficult 
to predict the final amounts delivered under the LTIP at the time of 
award. Each year, the REMCO reviews the LTIP vesting values and 
single figure outcomes for the Executive Directors to ensure that they 
are appropriate. The REMCO will review the formulaic single figure 
outcomes relative to the quality of performance outcomes and adjust 
these, taking into account Shell’s performance, shareholder experience, 
the operation of the remuneration structures and any other relevant 
factors to ensure that the highest variable pay outcomes are only 
achieved in years with the highest quality performance. In years where 
the vesting outcome makes the total remuneration inappropriate for 
any Executive Director, the REMCO will consider an adjustment to 
the annual bonus outcome and/or the LTIP vesting outcome for the 
purposes of managing remuneration quantum. In making any 
adjustment to the annual bonus and/or LTIP vesting outcome for this 
purpose, REMCO will consider the overall level of remuneration for the 
Executive Director, the operation of the annual bonus, the operation of 
the LTIP, the wider performance of Shell over the performance periods, 
as well as the internal context for other employees. An explanation of 
any discretionary adjustment would be set out in the relevant year’s 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Malus and clawback
Variable pay awards may be made subject to adjustment events. 
At the discretion of the REMCO, such an award may be adjusted 
before delivery (malus) or reclaimed after delivery (clawback) if an 
adjustment event occurs.
Adjustment events will be specified in award documentation and it is 
intended that they will, for example, relate to restatement of financial 
statements due to material non-compliance with a financial reporting 
requirement; misconduct by an Executive Director or misconduct 
through their direction or non-direction; any material breach of health 
and safety or environment regulations; serious reputational damage 
to Shell; material failure of risk management; corporate failure; or other 
exceptional events as determined at the discretion of the REMCO. The 
REMCO retains the right to alter the list of adjustment events in respect 
of future awards.
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
206 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
206
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive 
Directors from that for other employees
The remuneration policies, structure, and approach to setting 
remuneration levels are consistent across organisational levels at Shell, 
with consideration given to location, seniority and responsibilities. 
A higher proportion of total remuneration is tied to variable pay for 
Executive Directors and members of Senior Management, to reflect 
these individuals’ positions of influence and accountability.
 
Detailed discussion of how executive remuneration aligns with wider Company 
pay policy may be found in the "Workforce engagement on remuneration 
matters" section of the Annual Report on Remuneration, on page 
198.
Illustration of potential remuneration outcomes 
The charts on this page illustrate the potential future value and 
composition of the Executive Directors’ total remuneration opportunities 
under four performance scenarios ("Minimum", "On-target", "Maximum" 
and "Maximum +50% share price appreciation between award and 
vest"). The remuneration opportunities are based on those set out in 
the Policy table, applied to 2023 base salaries. The majority of the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration is delivered through variable pay 
elements, which are conditional on the achievement of stretching 
performance targets.
For simplicity, the charts exclude dividend accrual, and exclude 
the effect of any Company share price movement except in the 
"Maximum +50%" scenario.
 Performance scenarios
 
Minimum Target Maximum
Base salary (2023) P P P
Benefits (2022 actual) [A] P P P
Pension (2023) P P P
Bonus (2023) NIL 125% CEO 250% CEO
120% CFO 240% CFO
LTIP (2023) NIL 300% CEO 600% CEO
270% CFO 540% CFO
[A] Excluding one-off benefits related to the move to the UK.
Recruitment
The REMCO determines the remuneration package for new Executive 
Director appointments. These appointments may involve external 
or internal recruitment, or reflect a change in role of a current 
Executive Director.
When determining remuneration packages for new Executive Directors, 
the REMCO will seek a balanced outcome which allows Shell to:
▪ Attract and motivate candidates of the right quality;
▪ Take into account the individual’s current remuneration package
and other contractual entitlements;
▪ Seek a competitive pay position relative to our comparator group, 
without overpaying;
▪ Encourage relocation if required; and
▪ Honour entitlements (for example, variable remuneration) of internal 
candidates before their promotion to the Board, with the exception 
of any previous pension arrangements. 
The REMCO will follow the approach set out below when determining the remuneration package for a new Executive Director.
Ongoing 
remuneration
The salary, benefits, annual bonus, long-term incentives and pension benefits will be positioned and 
delivered within the framework of the Policy.
As stated in the Executive Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy table, and 
notes to the table.
Compensation for 
the forfeiture of any 
awards under 
variable 
remuneration 
arrangements
To facilitate external recruitment, one-off compensation in consideration for forfeited awards under 
variable remuneration arrangements entered into with a previous employer may be required. The 
REMCO will use its judgement to determine the appropriate level of compensation by matching the 
value of any lost awards under variable remuneration arrangements with the candidate’s previous 
employer. This compensation may take the form of a one-off cash payment or an additional award 
under the LTIP. The compensation can alternatively be based on a newly created long-term incentive 
plan arrangement where the only participant is the new Director. The intention is that any such 
compensation would, as far as possible, align to the duration and structure of the award being 
forfeited. Where appropriate, performance conditions, holding periods, and malus and clawback 
provisions will apply.
An amount equal to the value of 
the forfeited variable remuneration 
awards, as assessed by the 
REMCO. Consideration will be 
given to appropriate performance 
conditions, performance periods 
and clawback arrangements.
Component Approach Maximum
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
207 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
CEO pay scenarios (£ million)
Minimum
Maximum +50%
share price
appreciation
Maximum
On-target
100%
22% 55%23%
12% 62%26%
10% 71%19%
1.72
CFO pay scenarios (£ million)
Fixed remuneration
Annual incentive
Long-term incentive
a
b
c
a b c
13.62
17.82
0 5 10 15 20
7.67
Minimum
Maximum +50%
share price
appreciation
Maximum
On-target
100%
24% 53%23%
14% 60%26%
11% 69%20%
1.14
Fixed remuneration
Annual incentive
Long-term incentive
a
b
c
a b c
8.36
10.85
0 5 15 12
4.75
207
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Replacement of 
forfeited entitlements 
other than any 
awards under 
variable 
remuneration 
arrangements
There may also be a need to compensate a new Executive Director in respect of forfeited 
entitlements other than any awards under variable remuneration arrangements. This could include, 
for example, contractual entitlements or other benefits. On recruitment, these entitlements may be 
replicated within the Executive Director’s remuneration package or valued by the REMCO and 
compensated in cash.
In cases of internal promotion to the Board, any commitments made which cannot be effectively 
replaced within the Executive Director’s remuneration package may, at the REMCO’s discretion, 
continue to be honoured.
An amount equal to the value of 
the forfeited entitlements, as 
assessed by the REMCO.
Exceptional 
recruitment incentive
Apart from the ongoing annual remuneration package and any compensation in respect of the 
replacement of forfeited entitlements, there may be circumstances in which the REMCO needs to 
offer a one-off recruitment incentive in the form of cash or shares to ensure the right external 
candidate is attracted (e.g. to the industry). The REMCO recognises the importance of internal 
succession planning but it must also have the ability to compete for talent with other global 
companies. The necessity and level of this incentive will depend on the individual’s circumstances. 
The intention will be that this is only used in genuinely exceptional circumstances. 
A one-off amount up to the limits set 
out in the Executive Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy table, in 
addition to the ongoing package.
Relocation In the event that an internal or external candidate were required to relocate internationally to take 
up the Executive Director position, the REMCO may offer appropriate relocation provisions in 
respect of items including, but not limited to, relocation, assistance with visa/immigration issues, 
housing, and education assistance. If provided, these will be for a specified period of time, expected 
to be no more than two years.
The level of such benefits would be 
set at an appropriate level by the 
REMCO, taking into account the 
circumstances, provisions 
applicable to the wider 
internationally mobile workforce, 
and typical market practice.
Component Approach Maximum
 Executive Directors’ service contracts and end of employment arrangements (including change of control provisions)
Service contracts Executive Directors are employed for an indefinite period. Executive Directors based in the UK will be employed on service contracts 
governed by the laws of England and Wales.
Notice period The Executive Director or the Company may terminate employment by giving 12 months’ written notice. The Company may require the 
Executive Director to be on garden leave during all or any of the notice period (whether notice is given by the Company or the Executive 
Director).
Payment in lieu of 
notice (PILON)
The Company may terminate an Executive Director’s service contract at any time with immediate effect and pay a sum in lieu of the 
unexpired portion of any notice period to the value of no more than 12 months’ fixed pay (salary and regular allowances) and other 
benefits (unless statutory requirements to pay additional sums apply). 
The Company has the contractual right to make any PILON in monthly instalments in its discretion. Once the right to make a PILON is 
exercised, its delivery in instalments is mitigated by a contractual obligation on the Executive Director to seek alternative employment. 
Compensation for 
loss of office
Executive Directors will not usually receive additional payments for loss of office, other than, as appropriate, payments in lieu of notice as 
described above or payments in respect of damages if the Company terminates an Executive Director’s employment in breach of contract 
(taking into account, as appropriate, the Executive Director’s responsibility to mitigate any losses).
The REMCO reserves the right to make payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims taking into account 
contractual provisions, applicable law, corporate governance provisions, the applicability of any statutory compensation and the best 
interests of Shell and shareholders as a whole.
Dismissal The Company may terminate employment immediately in particular defined circumstances such as gross misconduct, with no further payment 
or PILON.
Annual bonus 
accrued prior to 
termination
The following provisions will normally apply:
▪ In the event of death, disability, injury or ill health, retirement, redundancy, completion of a fixed-term contract, and other circumstances 
at the REMCO’s discretion, any annual bonus in the year of departure is pro-rated based on service. Depending on the timing of the 
departure, the REMCO may consider the latest scorecard position or defer payment until the full-year scorecard result is known.
▪ In the event of a change of control, the REMCO will assess the most appropriate treatment for the outstanding bonus period according 
to the circumstances.
▪ Bonuses delivered in shares represent the bonus which a participant has already earned, and carry no further performance conditions. 
Therefore, these shares will normally be unrestricted at the conclusion of the normal holding period otherwise, and no pro-ration will apply.
▪ In other circumstances (including resignation), no award will be made unless statutory requirements apply.
▪ The REMCO retains discretion to waive any part of a bonus holding period in exceptional circumstances (primarily death).
Provision Policy
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
208 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
208
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
LTIP awards Share awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules. The following provisions will normally apply:
▪ In the event of disability, injury or ill health, retirement, redundancy, completion of a fixed-term contract, and other circumstances at the 
REMCO’s discretion: outstanding awards are reduced pro-rata (on a monthly basis) for time elapsed during the performance period. They 
will generally survive the end of employment and remain subject to the same vesting performance conditions, holding period and malus 
and clawback provisions, as if the Executive Director had remained in employment. The extent to which awards vest will be determined by 
the REMCO, taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied.
▪ In the event of death: the award will vest in full on the date of death or, if there is a target level set out in the performance condition, then 
at that target level, unless the REMCO determines otherwise.
▪ Change of control: awards will be exchanged for equivalent new awards issued by the acquirer, if agreed to by the acquirer and the 
Board. If there is no agreement to exchange awards, awards will (i) vest immediately in full if there is no performance condition, or (ii) vest 
immediately to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied to the date of vesting. Such awards will be reduced pro-rata 
for time elapsed during the performance period unless agreed otherwise.
▪ Other circumstances (including resignation): awards will lapse on cessation of employment unless statutory requirements apply.
▪ The REMCO retains discretion to waive any part of a holding period in exceptional circumstances (primarily death).
Other The provision of end-of-employment benefits such as a contribution to the Executive Director’s legal fees for the review of any settlement 
agreement, repatriation costs, and outplacement support may also be included, as deemed reasonable by the REMCO. The Executive 
Director may also remain eligible for other benefits, such as security provision or tax return preparation, in line with policies for the wider 
workforce. The Company may pay the Executive Director’s tax on such benefits. 
REMCO may adjust the range and scope of the benefits offered in the context of developments for other employees in relevant countries.
Provision Policy
In the event an Executive Director is based outside of the UK, the REMCO will determine the appropriate service contract and end of 
employment arrangements.
The table below sets out the effective dates of the Executive Directors' service contract.
 
Executive Director Date of contract
Wael Sawan January 1, 2023
Sinead Gorman April 1, 2022
 
Executive Directors’ employment arrangements are available for inspection at the AGM or on request. For further details on appointment and re-appointment of 
Directors, see the "Governance Framework" on page 148 and "Other regulatory and statutory information" on page 211.
 Non-executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy table
 
Fee structure Approach to setting fees Other remuneration
Non-executive Directors (NEDs) receive a 
fixed annual fee for their Directorship. The 
Chair receives a Chair of the Board fee, and 
other NEDs receive a base fee for membership 
of the Board.
Additional annual fees are payable to any NED 
(other than the Chair of the Board) who serves 
as Senior Independent Director, a Board 
Committee Chair, or a Board Committee 
member. Any individual receives either a Chair 
or member fee in respect of each Committee 
they sit on. The Chair of a Committee does not 
receive both fees.
NEDs receive an additional fee for any Board 
meeting involving intercontinental travel, with 
the exception of one meeting a year held in a 
location other than London.
The Chair of the Board fee is determined by 
the REMCO. The Board determines the fees 
payable to NEDs. The maximum aggregate 
annual fees will be within the limit specified 
by the Articles of Association and in 
accordance with the NEDs’ responsibilities 
and time commitments.
The Board reviews NED fees periodically 
to ensure that they are appropriate in the 
context of fee levels at other major listed 
companies.
Business expenses incurred in respect of the performance of 
their duties as a NED will be paid or reimbursed by Shell. 
Such expenses could include transport between home and 
office, and occasional business-required partner travel. NEDs 
may receive a token of recognition on retirement from the 
Board. The maximum value for this is £300. The REMCO has 
the discretion to offer other benefits as appropriate to the 
circumstances. Where business expenses or benefits create a 
personal tax liability to the NED, Shell may cover the 
associated tax. 
The Chair and other NEDs are not eligible to receive awards 
under any incentive or performance-based remuneration plans, 
and personal loans or guarantees are not granted to them.
NEDs do not accrue any retirement benefits as a result of 
their Non-executive Directorships with Shell.
NEDs are encouraged to hold Shell shares with a value 
equivalent to 100% of their annual base fee and maintain that 
holding during their tenure.
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
209 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
209
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment
NEDs, including the Chair of the Board, have letters of appointment. 
NEDs’ letters of appointment are available for inspection at the AGM 
or on request. The table below shows the appointment and expiry 
dates for the NEDs' appointments:
 
Non-executive Director
Effective date of 
appointment
Sir Andrew Mackenzie October 1, 2020
Dick Boer May 20, 2020
Neil Carson May 21, 2019
Ann Godbehere May 23, 2018
Euleen Goh September 1, 2014
Jane Holl Lute May 19, 2021
Catherine J. Hughes June 1, 2017
Martina Hund-Mejean May 20, 2020
Bram Schot October 1, 2020
Cyrus Taraporevala March 2, 2023
 
For further details on appointment and re-appointment of NEDs, see the 
"Governance Framework" on page 148 and "Other regulatory and statutory 
information" on page 211.
Non-executive Director recruitment
The remuneration package for new NEDs is determined within the 
confines of the Policy table for NED fees, and subject to the Articles 
of Association. NEDs are not offered variable remuneration or 
retention awards.
When determining the benefits for a new Chair of the Board, the 
individual circumstances of the future Chair will be taken into account.
Non-executive Director termination of office
No payments for loss of office will be made to NEDs.
Consideration of wider employee views
The REMCO takes account of the pay and employment conditions of 
the broader workforce when setting the Policy for Executive Directors.
Whilst no specific employee groups were consulted as part of the 
2023 Policy review, Shell promotes and maintains good relations with 
employee representative bodies as part of its employee engagement 
programme, and operates multiple forums through which employees 
can engage on various business matters, including pay.
When determining Executive Directors’ remuneration structure and 
outcomes, the REMCO reviews a set of information, including relevant 
reference points and trends, which includes internal data on employee 
remuneration (for example, employee relations matters in respect of 
remuneration, and average salary increases applying in the 
Netherlands, UK and the USA). During the Policy review, pay and 
employment conditions of the wider Shell employee population were 
taken into account by adhering to the same performance, rewards 
and benefits philosophy for the Executive Directors, as well as overall 
benchmarking principles. Furthermore, any potential differences from 
other employees (see "Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive 
Directors from that for other employees") were taken into account when 
providing the REMCO with advice in the formation of the Policy.
The REMCO is kept informed by the CEO, the Chief Human Resources 
& Corporate Officer, and the Executive Vice President Performance and 
Reward on the bonus scorecard and any relevant remuneration matters 
extending below the Board and Executive Committee.
 
See the "Workforce engagement on remuneration matters" section in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration, on page 198, for more information on how Shell 
considers and engages with the broader workforce on remuneration matters.
Consideration of shareholder views
The REMCO engages with major shareholders regularly throughout 
the year. Such engagement allows the REMCO to hear shareholders’ 
views on Shell’s approach to executive remuneration, and test 
proposals when developing or evolving the Policy. In recent years, the 
REMCO has responded to shareholder views, including the approach 
to energy transition metrics in the LTIP, the quantum of executive pay 
and the broader use of discretion to manage remuneration outcomes. 
In developing the proposed Policy, the REMCO again consulted with 
shareholders and received a diverse range of views that have helped to 
determine which proposals to refine and which to discard. For example, 
as a result of shareholder feedback in the fourth quarter of 2022, the 
REMCO determined not to proceed with seeking support for 
recruitment provision that would permit an extended notice period 
on hiring. Shareholders have been helpful in emphasising the need for 
balanced metrics in the LTIP to help avoid unintended consequences as 
Shell progresses through the energy transition. In 2022, the continued 
interest in the energy transition LTIP measure directly influenced 
increased transparency in Shell's reporting on the progress of its 
energy transition journey.
It was clear to the REMCO that, whilst there were inevitably 
contrasting views around the different aspects of the Policy, 
shareholders are supportive of Shell’s overall approach to 
remuneration and the REMCO’s careful deliberations in decision-
making. The REMCO will continue to review the Policy regularly to 
ensure it continues to reinforce Shell’s long-term strategy and closely 
aligns with shareholders’ interests.
Additional Policy statement
The REMCO reserves the right to make payments outside of the Policy 
in limited, exceptional circumstances, such as for regulatory, tax or 
administrative purposes, or to take account of a change in legislation 
or exchange controls, and only where the REMCO considers such 
payments are necessary to give effect to the intent of the Policy.
Signed on behalf of the Board
 
/s/ Caroline J. M. Omloo
Caroline J.M. Omloo
Company Secretary
March 8, 2023
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
210 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
210
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

This section of the Annual Report contains the remaining information which the Directors are required to report on each year and for the year 
ended December 31, 2022. There are other matters that are required to be reported on and that have been disclosed in other sections of the 
Annual Report, as summarised below:
 
Management Report This Directors' Report, together with the Strategic Report, serves as the Management Report 
for the purpose of Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.8R.
Both the Directors' Report and Strategic Report have been presented in accordance with and 
reliance on English law, and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with those reports 
shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Directors' Report: pages 132-210
Strategic Report: pages 1-124
Corporate governance The Company’s statement on corporate governance, as required by DTR7.2.3R, is incorporated 
in this Directors' Report by way of reference.
Directors' Report: pages 132-210
Business relationships [A] A statement, summarising the Directors’ business relationships with suppliers, customers and 
others.
Strategic Report: pages 1-124
Employee engagement Information on how Directors have engaged with employees. Workforce engagement: pages 
157-158
Directors' interests [B] The interests (in shares of the Company or calculated equivalents) of the Directors in office at 
the end of the year, including any interests of a "connected person". 
Changes in Directors’ share interests during the period from December 31, 2022, to March 8, 
2023.
Annual Report on Remuneration: pages 
183-202
Likely future developments Information relating to likely future developments. Provided throughout the Strategic 
Report: pages 1-124
Research and development Information relating to Shell’s research and development, including expenditure. Powering Progress strategy: pages 6-14
Diversity and inclusion Information concerning diversity and inclusion. This includes information on the equal 
opportunities in recruitment, career development, promotion, training and rewards for all our 
people, including those with disabilities.
Powering Lives: pages 112-120
Employee communication 
and involvement
Information concerning employee communication and involvement. Powering Lives: pages 112-120
Corporate social 
responsibility
A summary of Shell’s approach to corporate social responsibility.
Further details will be available in the Shell Sustainability Report 2022.
Powering Lives: pages 112-120
Branches A list of our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Our activities and interests are operated through subsidiaries, branches of subsidiaries, joint 
ventures and associates which are subject to the laws and regulations of many different 
jurisdictions.
Additional Information, Appendix 1: 
pages 367-387
Greenhouse gas emissions Information relating to greenhouse gas emissions. Our journey to net zero: pages 78-105
Risk management Detail on risk factors.
Information on emerging risks.
Risk Factors: pages 15-26
Other regulatory and statutory 
information: pages 211-219
Financial risk management, 
objectives and policies
Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and Shell’s financial risk management objectives 
and policies, and exposure to market risk (including price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk.
Consolidated Financial Statements: 
Note 25, 293-299
Listing rule information [C] Information concerning the amount of interest capitalised by Shell. Consolidated Financial Statements: 
Note 10, page 270
Listing rule information [C] The Remuneration Committee Report. Directors' Remuneration Report: pages 
178-182
Listing rule information [C] Details of the Company’s long-term incentive schemes as required by LR 9.4.3R Directors' Remuneration Report: pages 
178-182
Significant shareholdings Information concerning significant shareholdings. Shareholder information: pages 
358-361
[A] This meets the purposes of Schedule 7 to The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018.
[B] "Connected person" has the meaning given to "person closely associated" within the Market Abuse Regulation.
[C] This information is given in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4R. Further information in connection with Listing Rule 9.8.4R is contained in the remainder of "Other Statutory Information" which 
follows on pages 211-219.
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information
211 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
211
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Modern Slavery Act Statement
We have continued to prioritise buying from and encouraging local 
providers by procuring goods and services from local suppliers who 
meet the standards we require. The standards include those relating to 
human rights, labour practices and business integrity and are governed 
by the Shell Supplier Principles. Monitoring is undertaken centrally in 
connection with the preparation of the Shell Group’s Modern Slavery 
Act (MSA) Statement which is prepared by taking proposed inputs 
from Shell companies in scope of the MSA as to their steps taken to 
ensure modern slavery does not occur in their supply chain or 
organisation. The Shell Group Statement is approved by the Board 
of Shell plc, after approval by the boards of Shell companies which 
are in scope of the MSA.
Disclosure of information to auditors
In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of 
the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Report 
confirms that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware. The Director 
has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director 
in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware 
of that information.
Financial Statements, Dividends and Dividend Policy
 
The "Consolidated Statement of Income" and "Consolidated Balance Sheet" can 
be found on pages 238 and 239 respectively.
Subject to Board approval, Shell aims to grow the dividend per share 
by around 4% every year, and Shell will target the distribution of a 
minimum of 20% and, subject to Board approval and prevailing market 
conditions, potentially more than 30% of its cash flow from operations 
to shareholders. The Board may choose to return cash to shareholders 
through a combination of dividends and share buybacks. When setting 
the level of shareholder remuneration, the Board looks at a range of 
factors, including the macro environment, the underlying business 
earnings and cash flow of the Shell Group, the current balance sheet, 
future investment and divestment plans, and existing commitments.
Interim dividends are currently declared by the Board and paid on a 
quarterly basis. Shell does not currently pay a "final" dividend, which 
would need to be voted on by shareholders, requiring the introduction 
of a resolution at the AGM. This would delay the payment of the fourth 
quarter dividend (currently paid in late March) until after the AGM, 
which is towards the end of May, a delay of around seven weeks. 
Our approach to dividend payments is not uncommon for companies 
distributing returns to shareholders on a quarterly basis.
Shell pays its dividend in USD, EUR or GBP fully electronically either in 
CREST or via interbank transfers.
The Directors have announced a fourth quarter interim dividend 
payable on March 27, 2023, to shareholders on the Register of 
Members at the close of business on February 17, 2023. The closing 
date for dividend currency elections was March 3, 2023 [A] and the 
euro and sterling equivalents announcement date is March 13, 2023.
[A] A different dividend currency election date may apply to shareholders holding shares in a 
securities account with a bank or financial institution ultimately through Euroclear 
Nederland. This may also apply to other shareholders who do not hold their shares either 
directly on the Register of Members or in the corporate sponsored nominee arrangement. 
Such shareholders can contact their broker, financial intermediary, bank or financial 
institution for the election deadline that applies.
2022 Viability Statement and Going Concern Statement
The "Strategic Report" includes information about Shell’s strategy, 
financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, as well as the factors, 
including the principal risks, likely to affect Shell’s future development. 
It also describes Shell’s business model, including competitive 
advantages and key strengths. The Directors assess Shell’s prospects 
both at an operating and strategic level, each involving different time 
horizons. To this end, the Directors assess Shell’s portfolio and strategy 
against a wide range of outlooks, including assessing the potential 
impacts of various possible energy transition pathways and scenarios 
for changes in societal expectations in relation to climate change. Shell 
recognises in its strategy that the world is transitioning to a lower-
carbon energy system. 
 
See "Our journey to net zero" on pages 78-105.
The "Risk factors" section (see pages 15-26) provides an overview 
of the principal risks Shell is exposed to in its operations. We have 
assessed which scenarios linked to the principal risks could lead to a 
severe but possible outcome. Consideration was given to the climate 
change and energy transition risk, however the associated material 
impacts are of a longer-term nature, outside the three-year viability 
statement period. Therefore, it was not assessed as a stress case 
scenario for the viability statement. However, it is worth noting that key 
assumptions that underpin the amounts recognised in the consolidated 
balance sheet, such as future oil and gas prices, discount rates, future 
costs of decommissioning and restoration, and tax rates, all go well 
beyond three years and do take climate change and energy transition 
into account.
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued
212 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Throughout the year, the Board received regular  
updates on the financial framework
The Board approved the detailed three-year operating plan 
which includes Shell’s cash flows and ability to service 
financing requirements [A]
We identified and modelled five severe but possible 
scenarios that could potentially impact Shell’s viability
We assessed and concluded on the long-term viability of the 
Company (we have deemed a three-year period of 
assessment to be appropriate)
[A]  Shell’s three-year operating plan contains assumptions in relation to 
internal and external parameters, including recovery from the impacts of 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Some of the key assumptions include the impact 
of commodity prices, exchange rates, future carbon costs, agreements 
like LNG contract renewals, production levels and product demand and 
schedules of growth programmes.
Viability Statement Process 
212
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Scenarios and risks
 
Scenario
Link to principal 
risks
Severity of 
Impact
Unplanned shutdown of a major cash-
generating asset (for the viability statement 
period i.e. three years)
[A] Low
A low oil and gas price environment (Brent 
at 2023: $50, 2024: $50, 2025: $50)
[B] Medium
A significant HSSE event [A] Medium
Global macroeconomic uncertainties 
(including those from a pandemic) - low oil 
and gas price environment, negative impact 
on oil product and chemical margins, and 
long-term demand reduction
[B] and [C] Higher
A significant HSSE event and a low oil and 
gas price environment
[A] and [B] Higher
[A] The nature of our operations exposes us, and the communities in which we work, to a wide 
range of health, safety, security and environment risks.
[B] We are exposed to macroeconomic risks including fluctuating prices of crude oil, natural 
gas, oil products and chemicals.
[C] We are exposed to treasury and trading risks, including liquidity risk, interest rate risk, 
foreign exchange risk and credit risk. We are affected by the global macroeconomic 
environment and by financial and commodity market conditions. 
Conclusion
Taking account of Shell’s position and principal risks at December 31, 
2022, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Shell will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over its three-year operating plan period.
Going Concern
In assessing the appropriateness of the going concern assumption 
over the period to March 31, 2024 (the ‘going concern period’), 
management have stress-tested Shell’s most recent financial projections 
to incorporate a range of potential future outcomes by considering 
Shell’s principal risks, further potential downside pressures on 
commodity prices and cash preservation measures, including 
reduced future operating costs, capital expenditure and shareholder 
distributions. This assessment confirmed that Shell has adequate cash, 
other liquid resources and undrawn credit facilities to enable it to meet 
its obligations as they fall due in order to continue its operations during 
the going concern period. Therefore, the Directors consider it 
appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing the audited Consolidated Financial 
Statements. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
on page 242.
Non-Financial Information Statement
The Non-Financial Information Statement below forms part of the 
Strategic Report on pages 1-124.
 Non-Financial Information Statement
 
Reporting requirement Where to read more in this Report Page
Business Model Powering Progress strategy 6
Non-financial KPIs Performance indicators 27
Environmental matters Respecting nature and Our journey 
to net zero
106
78
Employees Powering Lives and Directors' 
Report
112
132
Social matters Powering Lives 112
Respect for human rights Powering Lives 112
Anti-corruption and anti-
bribery matters
Powering Lives
112
Risk Risk Factors 15
Repurchases of shares
Shell will target the distribution of a minimum of 20% and, subject to 
Board approval and prevailing market conditions, potentially more 
than 30% of its cash flow from operations to shareholders. The Board 
may choose to return cash to shareholders through a combination of 
dividends and share buybacks. For all share buyback programmes 
mentioned below, Shell entered into an irrevocable, non-discretionary 
arrangements with a broker in order to reduce the issued share capital 
of the Company.
Under shareholder authorities granted at the 2021 AGM, on 
December 2, 2021, Shell announced a share buyback programme 
of $1.5 billion comprising the first part of the $7 billion shareholder 
distributions from the sale of the Permian business in the USA, which 
was completed on January 28, 2022. On February 3, 2022, Shell 
announced the commencement of a share buyback programme of 
$8.5 billion, comprising $5.5 billion of Permian divestment proceeds 
and $3.0 billion as part of the Company’s capital allocation 
framework. This buyback programme was formed of two tranches, 
the first of $4 billion which ran between February 3, 2022 and May 4, 
2022, the second of $4.5 billion which ran between May 5, 2022 and 
July 5, 2022.
At the May 24, 2022, AGM, shareholders granted the Company the 
authority to repurchase (i) up to 758 million ordinary shares "on-
market" (excluding any treasury shares), less any "off-market" purchases 
made under the authority in (ii); and (ii) up to 758 million ordinary 
shares off-market (excluding any treasury shares), less any on-market 
purchases made under the authority in (i). The authorities for both on-
market and off-market purchases will expire at the earlier of the close 
of business on August 24, 2023, and the end of the AGM of the 
Company to be held in 2023. On July 28, 2022, Shell announced the 
commencement of a share buyback programme of $6 billion buyback 
which was completed on October 21, 2022; on October 27, 2022, 
Shell announced the commencement of a $4 billion share buyback 
programme which completed on January 27, 2023; and on February 
2, 2023, Shell announced the commencement of a share buyback 
programme of a further $4 billion which is expected to be completed 
by May 4, 2023. This means that, as at close of February 20, 2023, 
358 million further shares could still be repurchased under the current 
AGM authorities.
The Board continues to regard the ability to repurchase issued shares 
in suitable circumstances as an important part of Shell’s financial 
management. New resolutions will be proposed at the 2023 AGM 
to renew the authority for the Company to purchase its own share 
capital, up to specified limits, for a further year. These proposals 
will be described in more detail in the 2023 Notice of Annual 
General Meeting.
Board of Directors
The names of the Directors who held office during the year can be 
found on pages 133-141. Information on the Directors who are seeking 
reappointment is included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued
213 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
213
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Simplification
On January 21, 2022, the Company changed its name from Royal 
Dutch Shell plc to Shell plc. On January 29, 2022, one line of shares 
was established through assimilation of each A share and each B share 
into one single line of ordinary shares of the Company. This assimilation 
had no impact on voting rights or dividend entitlements. 
Qualifying third-party indemnities
The Company has entered into a Deed of Indemnity (Deed) with 
each Director of the Company who served during the year. The terms 
of each of these Deeds are identical and they reflect the statutory 
provisions on indemnities contained in the Companies Act 2006 (CA 
2006). Under the terms of each Deed, the Company has agreed to 
indemnify the Director, to the fullest extent permitted by the CA 2006, 
against any loss, liability or damage, howsoever caused (including in 
respect of a Director’s own negligence), suffered or incurred by a 
Director in respect of their acts or omissions while or in the course of 
acting as a Director or employee of the Company, any associated 
company or affiliate (within the meaning of the CA 2006). In addition, 
the Company shall lend funds to Directors as required to meet 
reasonable costs and expenses incurred or to be incurred by them in 
defending any criminal or civil proceedings brought against them in 
their capacity as a Director or employee of the Company, associated 
company or affiliate, or, in connection with certain applications brought 
under the CA 2006. The provisions in the Company’s Articles of 
Association (Articles) relating to arbitration and exclusive jurisdiction 
are incorporated, mutatis mutandis, into the Deeds entered into by 
each Director and the Company.
The Company has provided both indemnities and Directors’ and 
officers’ insurance to the Directors in connection with the performance 
of their responsibilities. Copies of these indemnities and the Directors’ 
and officers’ insurance policies are open to inspection. A copy of the 
form of these indemnities has been previously filed with the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Related party transactions
Save as set out below and other than disclosures given in Notes 13 and 
33 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 275 and 306, 
there were no transactions or proposed transactions that were material 
to either the Company or any related party. Nor were there any 
transactions with any related party that were unusual in their nature 
or conditions.
On February 11, 2022, Shell Pipeline Company LP, a subsidiary of the 
Company, announced that it made a non-binding offer to purchase all 
remaining common units held by the public representing limited partner 
interests in Shell Midstream Partners, L.P. (Shell interest 68.5%)(SHLX) 
for $12.89 per common unit in cash. On October 19, 2022, Shell USA, 
Inc. and SHLX completed the definitive agreement and plan of merger, 
pursuant to which Shell USA, Inc. acquired all of the common units at 
$15.85 per common unit in cash, representing limited partner interests 
in SHLX not held by Shell USA, Inc. or its affiliates.
Political contributions
No payments were made by Shell companies to political parties, 
organisations or their representatives during the year. Shell USA, Inc. 
administers the non-partisan Shell USA, Inc. Employees’ Political 
Awareness Committee (SEPAC), a political action committee registered 
with the US Federal Election Commission. Eligible employees may 
make voluntary personal contributions to the SEPAC. All employees’ 
contributions comply with federal and state law and are publicly 
reported in accordance with US election laws. Shell USA, Inc. does 
not exercise control over SEPAC’s funding decisions.
Recent developments and post-balance sheet events
See Note 35 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 307.
Share capital
The Company’s issued share capital at December 31, 2022, is set
out in Note 26 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" 299. The 
percentage of the total issued share capital is given below. On January 
29, 2022, an assimilation of the Company's A and B shares was 
effected, creating a single line of ordinary shares. More information on 
how this has impacted the share capital of the Company can be found 
on page 211.
 Share capital percentage as at December 31, 2022
 
Share class %
Ordinary 100
Sterling deferred [A] de minimis
[A] See Note 9 to the "Parent Company Financial Statements" on page 346.
Transfer of securities
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of the 
ordinary shares other than under the Articles, restrictions imposed by 
law or regulation (for example, insider trading laws) or pursuant to the 
Company’s Share Dealing Code.
Share ownership trusts and trust-like entities
Shell has three primary employee share ownership trusts and trust-like 
entities: a Dutch foundation (stichting) and two US Rabbi Trusts. The 
shares held by the Dutch foundation are voted by its Board and the 
shares in the US Rabbi Trusts are voted by the Voting Trustee, Newport 
Trust Company. Both the Board of the Dutch foundation and the Voting 
Trustee are independent of Shell.
The UK Shell All Employee Share Ownership Plan has a separate 
related share ownership trust. Shares held by the trust are voted by 
its trustee, Computershare Trustees Limited, as directed by the 
participants.
Auditor
A resolution relating to the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor 
for the financial year 2023 will be proposed at the 2023 AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on May 23, 2023, at ExCel London, 1 Western 
Gateway, London E16 1XL, United Kingdom. The Notice of Annual 
General Meeting will include details of the business to be put to 
shareholders at the AGM.
Conflicts of interest
In accordance with the Act and the Company's Articles, the Board 
may authorise any matter that otherwise may involve any Directors 
breaching their duty to avoid conflicts of interest. The Board has 
adopted a procedure to address these requirements. Detailed conflict 
of interest questionnaires are reviewed by the Board and, if considered 
appropriate, authorised. Conflicts of interest as well as any gifts and 
hospitality received by and provided by Directors are kept under 
review by the Board. Further information relating to conflicts of interest 
can be found in the Articles, available on the Shell website.
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued
214 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
214
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Significant commitments of the Chair
The Chair's other significant commitments are given in his biography 
on page 133.
Shell General Business Principles
The Shell General Business Principles define how Shell subsidiaries 
are expected to conduct their affairs and are underpinned by the 
Shell core values of honesty, integrity and respect for people. These 
principles include, among other things, Shell’s commitment to support 
fundamental human rights in line with the legitimate role of business 
and to contribute to sustainable development. They are designed to 
mitigate the risk of damage to our business reputation and to prevent 
violations of local and international legislation. They can be found at 
www.shell.com/sgbp. 
 
See "Risk factors" on pages 15-26.
Shell Code of Conduct
Directors, officers, employees and contract staff are required to comply 
with the Shell Code of Conduct, which instructs them on how to behave 
in line with the Shell General Business Principles. This Code clarifies 
the basic rules and standards they are expected to follow and the 
behaviour expected of them. These individuals must also complete 
mandatory Code of Conduct training.
Designated individuals are required to complete additional mandatory 
training on antitrust and competition laws, anti-bribery, anti-corruption 
and anti-money laundering laws, financial crime, data protection laws 
and trade compliance requirements. 
 
See "Risk factors" on pages 15-26.
 The Shell Code of Conduct can be found at www.shell.com/codeofconduct.
Code of Ethics
Executive Directors and Senior Financial Officers of Shell must also 
comply with the Code of Ethics. This Code is specifically intended 
to meet the requirements of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
It can be found at www.shell.com/codeofethics.
Independent professional advice
All Directors may seek independent professional advice in connection 
with their role as a Director. All Directors have access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary. The Company has provided both 
indemnities and Directors’ and officers’ insurance to the Directors in 
connection with the performance of their responsibilities. Copies of 
these indemnities and the Directors’ and officers’ insurance policies are 
open to inspection. A copy of the form of these indemnities has been 
previously filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Results presentations and analysts’ meetings
The planned dates of the quarterly, half-yearly and annual results 
presentations, as well as all major analysts’ meetings, are announced 
in advance on the Shell website and through a regulatory release.
Generally, presentations are broadcast live via webcast and 
teleconference. Other meetings with analysts or investors are not 
normally announced in advance, nor can they be followed remotely 
by webcast or any other means. Procedures are in place to ensure 
that discussions in such meetings are always limited to non-material 
information or information already in the public domain.
Results and meeting presentations can be found at www.shell.com/ 
investor. This is in line with the requirement to ensure that all 
shareholders and other parties in the financial market have equal 
and simultaneous access to information that may influence the price 
of the Company’s securities.
Risk management and controls
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of risk 
management and internal control, and for regularly reviewing its 
effectiveness. 
A single overall control framework exists for the Company and its 
subsidiaries. This is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk 
of failure to achieve our business objectives. It provides reasonable, 
but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Control Framework (see diagram on the next page) encompasses 
the key components – "foundation elements", "management processes" 
and "structural" – that together establish the structure and context 
within which Shell companies operate. "Foundation elements" consist of 
the principles and rules that underpin and establish boundaries for Shell 
activities. "Management processes" define our critical processes. These 
include how strategy, planning and appraisal are used to improve 
performance and how risks are to be managed, such as through the 
application of effective controls and assurance. The "structural" 
component defines the organisational structures and key governance 
principles that are applied to facilitate the achievement of the Shell 
Group’s overall business objectives.
Risk management 
The "Statement on Risk Management" is a foundation element of the 
Shell Control Framework and a key enabler of many of its management 
processes.
Risk identification
We identify and define risks across the Shell Group from three distinct 
perspectives:
▪ Strategic risks: we consider current and future portfolio issues, 
examining parameters such as country concentration or exposure to 
higher-risk countries. We also consider long-range developments in 
order to test key assumptions or beliefs in relation to energy markets.
▪ Operational risks: we consider material operational exposures 
across Shell’s entire value chain which provide a more granular 
assessment of key risks facing the organisation.
▪ Conduct and culture risks: we consider how our policies and 
practices align with our purpose, core values and desired mindset 
and behaviours. 
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued
215 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
215
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

These perspectives help us to maintain a comprehensive view of the 
different types of risks we face and the different time horizons in which 
they may affect us.
Risk assessment
To further understand the risks we face, we evaluate the impact and 
likelihood of each risk. 
When assessing the potential impact of a risk, we consider the possible 
financial consequences. We also look at the impacts on our reputation, 
our ability to comply with external regulations and impacts on health, 
safety and the environment.
When assessing the likelihood of a risk occurring, we consider several 
factors, such as the level of risk exposure, our ability to prevent the risk 
happening and whether the risk has materialised in the past. 
To support risk assessments, we also seek to establish and articulate 
our risk appetite, which is the level of risk that we are willing to accept 
in pursuit of Shell’s strategy and objectives. There are risks that Shell 
accepts, or does not seek to fully mitigate. The financial framework sets 
an overarching boundary condition for risk appetite. This is because 
Shell's financial resilience informs the aggregate level of risk appetite 
that could be sustained.
The impact and likelihood assessment, combined with risk appetite, 
determine the type of risk responses, such as controls and assurance 
activities, that may be required to manage each risk. The impact and 
likelihood assessments also help us to prioritise risks. 
Risk response
Two key foundations of the Shell Control Framework are Shell’s 
standards and manuals, and the Code of Conduct. These establish 
requirements and guidance that help management design and develop 
processes, systems and controls to manage risks consistently across 
the Group. 
 
Shell’s principal risks and the broad array of measures used to manage each risk 
are described on pages 15-26.
During the year, management, the Board and Committees on behalf of 
the Board review the principal risks and associated risk responses, and 
implement further remedial actions as appropriate. They frame them in 
terms of strategic, operational or conduct and culture risks, and assess 
them alongside the relevant control mechanisms and risk responses. 
These reviews are supplemented by dedicated reviews of specific risks, 
as needed. 
Throughout 2022, the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and its varied 
impact on our people and our business operations, including sanctions 
and export controls, received notable attention from the Board, the 
Executive Committee and the Group Crisis Management Team.
 
See the risk factor "Russia's invasion of Ukraine" on page 18.
Examples of how some principal risks are managed
We operate in more than 70 countries that have differing degrees 
of political, legal and economic stability. This exposes us to a wide 
range of political developments that could cause changes to 
contractual terms, laws and regulations. We and our joint 
arrangements and associates also face the risk of litigation and 
disputes worldwide (see "Risk Factors" on page 17). We 
continually monitor geopolitical developments and societal issues 
relevant to our interests. Our Legal and Tax functions are 
organised globally and support our business lines in seeking to 
ensure compliance with local laws and fiscal regulations.Our 
Corporate Relations department liaises with governments in 
countries where we operate to understand and engage on local 
policies and to advocate Shell's position on topics relevant to our 
industry. We are prepared to exit a country if we believe we can 
no longer operate there in accordance with our standards and 
applicable law, and we have done so in the past.
Many of our major projects and operations are conducted in joint 
arrangements or with associates, which may reduce our level of 
control and ability to identify and manage risks (see "Risk Factors" 
on page 23). In each case, Shell appoints a representative to 
manage its interests. This representative seeks to ensure that the 
projects operate under standards that are equivalent to Shell’s for 
certain critical areas.
Climate change and risks resulting from greenhouse gas emissions 
are significant risk factors for Shell. Shell has a climate change risk 
management approach which is supported by standards, policies 
and controls (see "Risk factors" on page 16 and "Our journey to 
net zero" on pages 78-105). 
The system of risk management and internal control over financial 
reporting is an integral part of the Shell Control Framework. Regular 
reviews are performed to identify the significant risks to financial 
reporting and the key controls designed to address them. These 
controls are documented, responsibility is assigned, and they are 
monitored for design and operating effectiveness. Controls found 
to be ineffective are remediated. 
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued
216 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Control framework
[A]   The foundation elements of the Shell Control Framework  
define the principles that underpin the Shell Group’s activities.
[B]   The management processes define activities critical  
to an effective control framework.
[C]   The structural component defines how businesses and functions 
facilitate achievement of the Shell Group’s overall business 
objectives, while respecting the separate legal identity of the 
individual Shell companies that implement them.
[D]   A foundation element of the Shell Control Framework and  
a key enabler of many of its management processes.
Shell General Business Principles
External environment
Shell plc and other legal entities [C]
Strategy, 
planning and 
appraisal [B]
Controls
and
assurance [B]
Code of 
Conduct [A]
Standards  
and manuals [A]Statement 
on Risk 
Management
[D]
Businesses and functions [C]
216
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Emerging risks
Management and the Board also consider emerging risks, defined as 
risks where the scope, impact and likelihood are still uncertain, but 
which could have a significant effect on achieving Shell’s strategy and 
objectives in the future. These risks are identified through the monitoring 
of external developments, the status of risk indicators, learnings from 
incidents and assurance findings, and the appraisal of Shell’s forward-
looking plans. Once identified, we undertake activities to monitor, 
prepare for and reduce the future impact, where possible, should 
such emerging risks materialise.
Board review of principal and emerging risks
The Board confirms it has carried out a robust assessment of Shell’s 
principal risks, including a robust process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing Shell’s principal risks. The Board also confirms it has carried 
out a robust assessment of Shell’s emerging risks. These assessments 
have been in place throughout 2022 and up to the date of this Report, 
are reviewed by the Board and accord with the Financial Reporting 
Council guidance on risk management, internal control and related 
financial and business reporting.
Review of the effectiveness of the system of risk 
management and internal control
The Board has delegated authority to the Audit Committee to assist it 
in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to the effectiveness of the risk 
management and internal control system, the integrity of financial 
reporting, and consideration of compliance matters. 
 
See "Audit Committee Report" on pages 165-177.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Chief Internal 
Auditor on notable internal audits and those with a significant impact 
on the effectiveness of controls. The Committee reviews significant 
incidents involving financial, business and compliance controls and 
receives regular reports on business integrity issues. The Audit 
Committee also requests updates on specific financial, operational 
and compliance control issues throughout the year. The Audit 
Committee Chair provides an update to the Board after every 
Audit Committee meeting.
The Chair of the Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee 
(SESCo) provides regular updates to the Board after each of its 
meetings. These updates cover, among other matters, the respective 
aspects of controls that it monitors in accordance with its Terms of 
Reference. The Board receives the approved minutes of the Audit 
Committee and SESCo minutes. During and after such sessions, the 
Board has the opportunity to request further information and ask 
clarifying questions. They are incorporated into the Board minutes so 
all Directors can read and review them. This helps the Board with its 
ongoing monitoring and annual review of material controls. The Board 
is also helped with its monitoring and review responsibilities by the 
reports of:
▪ the Executive Vice President Controller [A];
▪ the Chief Internal Auditor;
▪ the External Auditors;
▪ the Chairs of the Disclosure Committee and the Financial Reporting 
Control Committee; and
▪ the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer; 
▪ as well as summaries of the Annual Proved Reserves Disclosure.
[A] As of October 1, 2023, the role of the Executive Vice President (EVP) Taxation and 
Controller was divided into two roles: EVP Taxation and EVP Controller.
The Executive Committee and the Audit Committee conduct an annual 
review of the effectiveness of the system of risk management and 
internal control. This is based on their own insights and experience 
during the year and the outcomes of the Group-level risk reviews and 
the Group Assurance Letter process. In the Group Assurance Letter 
process, each Executive Director conducts a structured internal 
assessment of compliance with legal and ethical requirements 
and the Shell Control Framework.
As part of their annual review, the Executive Committee and Audit 
Committee also consider input from the Chief Internal Auditor, 
Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer and the External Auditor. 
The Board reviews and discusses the insights and conclusions 
from this annual assessment.
The Board confirms that it has conducted its annual review of the 
effectiveness of Shell’s system of risk management and internal control 
in respect of 2022, and that this review covered all material controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls.
 
The Shell Performance Framework
Following the launch of the Powering Progress strategy and 
subsequent organisational changes, management are proposing 
to enhance the control framework in which Shell operates. Work 
has therefore been ongoing throughout 2022 to develop an 
updated model, called the Shell Performance Framework, 
considering industry and other external best practices, where 
appropriate. The intention is to retain the core strengths of the 
Shell Control Framework, including the Shell General Business 
Principles, Code of Conduct and risk management focus. The 
updated model will emphasise the value of using a holistic or 
‘whole systems’ approach to business activities, including our 
mindset and behaviours, as well as focus on the concept of the 
‘Improvement Cycle’ to ensure appropriate integration of activities 
such as performance management, risk management, controls and 
assurance, learning and continuous improvement.
Progress on developing the updated framework is being regularly 
reviewed by Executive Committee members. The Audit Committee 
has also been briefed on the Shell Performance Framework and 
will be asked to support its introduction prior to seeking final 
approval from the Board. Subject to this Board approval, the Shell 
Performance Framework is anticipated to be effective later in 
2023. 
Management’s evaluation of disclosure controls and 
procedures of Shell
Shell’s CEO and CFO have evaluated the effectiveness of Shell’s 
disclosure controls and procedures at December 31, 2022. Based 
on that evaluation, they concluded that Shell’s disclosure controls 
and procedures are effective. 
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued
217 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
217
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Management’s report on internal control over 
financial reporting of Shell
Management, including the CEO and CFO, is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over Shell’s 
financial reporting and the preparation of the "Consolidated Financial 
Statements". It conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of Shell’s 
internal control over financial reporting and the preparation of the 
"Consolidated Financial Statements" based on the Internal Control - 
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). On the basis of 
this evaluation, management concluded that, at December 31, 2022, 
the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and the 
preparation of the "Consolidated Financial Statements" was effective.
The Trustee’s and management’s evaluation of disclosure 
controls and procedures for the Royal Dutch Shell 
Dividend Access Trust 
The Trustee of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust (the Trustee) 
and Shell’s CEO and CFO have evaluated the effectiveness of the 
disclosure controls and procedures in respect of the Dividend Access 
Trust (the Trust) at December 31, 2022. On the basis of this evaluation, 
these officers have concluded that the disclosure controls and 
procedures of the Trust are effective.
The Trustee’s and management’s report on internal 
control over financial reporting of the Royal Dutch Shell 
Dividend Access Trust
The Trustee and the Company’s management are responsible for 
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over the Trust’s 
financial reporting. The Trustee and Shell’s management conducted an 
evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial 
reporting based on the Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) 
issued by COSO. On the basis of this evaluation, the Trustee and 
Shell's management concluded that, at December 31, 2022, the 
Trust’s internal control over financial reporting was effective.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting 
There has not been any change in the internal control over financial 
reporting of Shell or the Trust that occurred during the period covered 
by this Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to 
materially affect, the internal control over financial reporting of Shell or 
the Trust. Material financial information of the Trust is included in the 
"Consolidated Financial Statements" and is therefore subject to the 
same disclosure controls and procedures as Shell. 
 
See the "Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements" on 
pages 352-356 for additional information. 
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles were adopted on December 20, 2021. 
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of the 
shareholders in a general meeting. A full version of the Company’s 
Articles can be found at www.shell.com/investors. At the Company's 
2023 AGM, shareholders will be asked to consider and, if in 
agreement, approve new Articles. An overview of the proposed 
changes will be published in the 2023 Notice of AGM. A comparison 
document highlighting all proposed modifications to the Articles will 
be made available at www.shell.com/investor and within the Annual 
General Meeting area.
Management and Directors
The Company has a single-tier Board of Directors headed by a Chair, 
with management led by a CEO. See "The Board of Shell plc" on pages 
133-141 and Senior Management on page 142-143.
Directors’ shareholding qualification
While the Articles do not require Directors to hold shares in the 
Company, the Remuneration Committee believes that Executive 
Directors should align their interests with those of shareholders by 
holding shares in the Company. The CEO is expected to build up a 
shareholding of seven times base salary over five years from 
appointment and the CFO is expected to build up a shareholding of 
five times base salary over the same period. In the event that another 
Executive Director joins the Board, the Remuneration Committee will 
determine their shareholding requirement, which will not be less than 
200% of their base salary.
Executive Directors will be required to maintain their requirement 
(or existing shareholding if less than the guideline) for a period of two 
years post employment. Non-executive Directors are encouraged to 
hold shares with a value equivalent to 100% of their fixed annual fee 
and to maintain that holding during their tenure. 
 
Information on the Directors with shares in the Company can be found in the 
"Directors’ Remuneration Report" on pages 178-182.
Appointment and retirement of Directors
The Company’s Articles, the Corporate Governance Code and the 
Companies Act 2006 govern the appointment and retirement of 
Directors. Board membership and biographical details of the Directors 
are provided on pages 133-141. However, Directors follow the direction 
laid out in the Code and stand for re-election annually. 
On March 31, 2022, Jessica Uhl stepped down from the Board after 
five years' service as CFO and 17 years with Shell. Sinead Gorman 
was appointed and succeeded her as CFO on April 1, 2022. 
On May 24, 2022, Gerrit Zalm stepped down from the Board after 
more than nine years' service as a Non-executive Director. 
On December 31, 2022, Ben van Beurden stepped down from the 
Board after nine years as CEO and 39 years with Shell. Wael Sawan 
joined the Board as CEO on January 1, 2023.
On March 2, 2023, Cyrus Taraporevala joined the Board as a Non-
executive Director.
On March 13, 2023, Sir Charles Roxburgh and Leena Srivastava 
will join the Board as Non-executive Directors. 
At the conclusion of the 2023 AGM both Euleen Goh and Martina 
Hund-Mejean will stand down from the Board.
Rights attaching to shares
The full rights attaching to shares are set out in the Company’s Articles. 
The Company can issue shares with any rights or restrictions attached 
to them as long as this is not restricted by any rights attached to 
existing shares. These rights or restrictions can be decided either by an 
ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders or by the Board as long 
as there is no conflict with any resolution passed by the shareholders.
Voting
Currently, the voting rights of each ordinary share carry one vote at a 
general meeting of the Company.
The non-voting sterling deferred shares are not ordinary shares and 
therefore have different rights and restrictions attached to them. See 
Note 9 to the "Parent Company Financial Statements" on page 346.
Change of control
There are no provisions in the Articles that would delay, defer or 
prevent a change of control.
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued
218 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
218
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the preparation 
of the Annual Report and Accounts
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
including the financial statements, in accordance with applicable laws 
and regulations. These require the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. As such, the Directors have 
prepared the (i) Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with 
international accounting standards in conformity with the requirements 
of the UK Companies Act 2006, and therefore in accordance with UK-
adopted international accounting standards; and (ii) Parent Company 
Financial Statements in accordance with international accounting 
standards in conformity with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 
2006. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have also 
elected to comply with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB). The Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of Shell and the Company and of the profit or loss 
of Shell and the Company for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
▪ adopt the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so;
▪ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
▪ make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and
▪ state whether international accounting standards in conformity with 
the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006, UK-adopted 
international accounting standards and International Financial 
Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of Shell and the 
Parent Company and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, 
the financial position of Shell and the Parent Company and to enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 (the Act) and, as regards the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and therefore 
are in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting 
standards. The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of Shell and the Parent Company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions can be found 
on page 133-141, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
▪ the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance 
with international accounting standards in conformity with the 
requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006, and therefore in 
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards 
and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the 
IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of Shell and the Company; and
▪ the Management Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of Shell, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Furthermore, so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware, and each 
of the Directors has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken 
in order to become aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report, including the financial 
statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
Shell’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the Shell website (www.shell.com). Legislation in the UK governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Signed on behalf of the Board
 
/s/ Caroline J.M. Omloo
Caroline J.M. Omloo
Company Secretary
March 8, 2023
Governance
Other regulatory and statutory information continued
219 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
219
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
 
Financial
Statements
and Supplements
221 Independent Auditor’s Report related to 
the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial 
Statements
237 Consolidated Financial Statements
308 Supplementary information – oil and gas 
(unaudited)
340 Parent Company Financial Statements
350 Independent Auditor’s Report to Computershare 
Trustees of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access 
Trust and the Board of Directors of Royal Dutch 
Shell plc
352 Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial 
Statements
Financial Statements and Supplements
220 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
220
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

1. Opinion 
In our opinion, the financial statements of Shell plc (the Parent Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively, Shell or Group):
▪ give a true and fair view of the state of Shell’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at December 31, 2022 and of Shell’s income and the 
Parent Company’s income for the year then ended;
▪ have been properly prepared in accordance with UK adopted international accounting standards and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB); and
▪ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of the Parent Company and the Group for the year ended December 31, 2022, which are included 
in the Annual Report and comprise:
 
Group Parent Company
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2022
Consolidated Statement of Income for the year then ended
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended
Related Notes 1 to 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including 
a summary of significant accounting policies
Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2022
Statement of Income for the year then ended
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended
Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended
Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended
Related Notes 1 to 16 to the Parent Company Financial Statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and UK adopted international accounting 
standards and IFRS as issued by the IASB.
2. Basis for our opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISA (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ section of our report. We believe that the 
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
3. Independence
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company and we remain 
independent of the Group and the Parent Company in conducting the audit.
4. Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 
financial statements is appropriate. The going concern assessment covered the period to March 31, 2024 (the going concern period). Our 
evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group and Parent Company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting 
included:
▪ verifying the consistency of information used in management's assessment with the operating plan and information obtained through auditing 
other areas of the business such as impairment assessments;
▪ assessing the reasonableness of the estimated financial impact of each of the severe but possible scenarios, and the possible mitigation steps 
and assumptions regarding the availability of future funding options. The scenarios are described by management on page 242 and in the basis 
of preparation statements in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 1 to the Parent Company Financial Statements;
▪ verifying that Shell’s operating plan reflects the actions that management intend to take in order to achieve their stated Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions reductions, as stated in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including confirming that the operating and capital 
expenditure estimates to deliver the reductions are included in the operating plan. This included evaluating Shell's carbon pricing assumptions; 
▪ conducting severe but plausible independent stress testing to a significantly lower price environment than current prices throughout the going 
concern period and a reverse stress test to determine the conditions under which Shell could potentially experience a liquidity shortfall; and
▪ confirming that Shell's going concern disclosures were appropriate.
We concluded that Shell's modelled scenarios were reasonable for evaluating the going concern assumption and that there was sufficient 
headroom in each of the scenarios modelled throughout the going concern period. Also, under our additional stress testing, we concluded that 
there would be sufficient facilities available for Shell to continue as a going concern during the going concern period. Going concern was not 
determined to be a key audit matter.
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or 
collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and Parent Company’s ability to continue as going concerns until March 31, 2024. 
In relation to the Group and Parent Company’s reporting on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing 
material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the Consolidated Financial Statements and Parent Company Financial 
Statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant section of this report. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s or Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc
221 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
221
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

5. Overview of our audit approach 
 
Identifying key audit matters 
(Section 6)
The key audit matters that we identified in the 2022 audit were:
▪ impact of climate change and the energy transition on the Consolidated Financial Statements;
▪ estimation of oil and gas reserves;
▪ impairment assessment of property plant and equipment (PP&E) and joint ventures and associates (JVAs); 
▪ accounting for complex transactions within Shell's trading and supply function and the valuation of financial derivatives.
Assessing materiality
(Section 7)
We based materiality on normalised Adjusted Earnings on a pre-tax basis. This approach removes both the effects of 
changes in oil price on inventory carrying amounts and non- recurring gains and charges disclosed as identified items, 
which can significantly distort Shell’s results in any one particular year. By applying a normalised Adjusted Earnings 
approach, we concluded that it was appropriate to set planning materiality at $1.2 billion. We adopted the following 
materiality measures in our 2022 audit: 
Determining the scope of our 
audit (Section 8)
Our scope was tailored to the circumstances of our audit of Shell and is influenced by our determination of materiality and 
our assessed risks of material misstatement. Similar to the prior year, during the course of the 2022 audit, we did not make 
any substantial changes to our assessment of the components where we performed full or specific scope audit procedures, 
nor the number of IT applications to test; however, what did change was the nature and emphasis of our testing in response 
to our significant audit risks and areas of audit focus. By following this approach, our audit effort focused on higher risk 
areas, such as management judgements.
6. Our assessment of key audit matters
Key audit matters (KAMs) are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements 
of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These 
matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts 
of the engagement team. These matters were addressed in the context of the audit of Shell’s Consolidated and Parent Company Financial 
Statements as a whole, and our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
222 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Planning 
materiality
Performance 
materiality
Reporting 
differences
$1.2 billion
(2021: $1.0 billion)
$0.9 billion
(2021: $0.75 billion)
$60 million
(2021: $50 million)
222
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
The impact of climate change and the energy transition on the Consolidated Financial Statements
Description of the key audit matter
The financial statement and audit risks related to climate change and the energy transition remain an area of audit focus in 2022. This 
is due to the continuing uncertainty surrounding the impact of climate change and the pervasive impact it has on many areas of 
accounting judgement and estimation and, therefore, our audit. 
Climate related issues impact Shell in many ways, as set out in Our journey to net zero on pages 78 to 105, within the Strategic report, which forms part of the "Other 
information", rather than the audited financial statements. Within this section, Shell have described how climate-related issues are considered when reviewing and 
guiding strategy, major plans of action and risk management policies, annual budgets, and business plans. Shell also identified climate-related risks and opportunities 
in this section and in Risk factors on pages 15 to 26, which form part of the "Other information", rather than the audited financial statements. 
In Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Shell describe how they consider climate related impacts and their stated emissions reduction targets in key areas 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements and how this translates into the valuation of assets and measurement of liabilities.
In carrying out our audit, we have focused on the alignment of assumptions adopted by Shell in the preparation of their financial statements with commentary on 
climate change within their Strategic Report, which includes the Powering Progress strategy, which is described on pages 6 to 14. We also focused on how Shell had 
reflected material climate change risks in their financial statements, including the impact of the emissions reduction targets on accounting estimates and judgements. 
In focusing on how Shell has the reflected material climate change risks in Shell’s Consolidated Financial Statements, we have considered:
1) how Shell’s assumed future commodity price assumptions compare to energy transition scenarios; 
2) the reasonableness of Shell’s forecast future carbon costs; 
3) the incorporation of Shell’s stated emissions reduction targets (see page 8) within Shell’s operating plan (OP22); 
4) the carbon intensity of Shell’s assets;
5) the useful economic lives of assets beyond 2030 and the risk of material stranded assets; and
6) how physical risk considerations have been incorporated into Shell’s asset plans.
The critical accounting judgements and estimates that are impacted by climate change and the energy transition are disclosed within Note 4 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
Our response to the risk
Overall response
In order to respond to the impact of climate change and the energy transition on our audit, we ensured that we had the appropriate skills and experience on the audit 
team. Our group engagement team included professionals with significant experience in climate change and the energy transition. Most of the audit procedures were 
performed by the group engagement team. Where work was carried out by component teams, this was under the direction of team members with significant 
experience in climate change. 
In addition, during the planning phase of our audit, the group engagement team, including climate change and sustainability specialists, held a series of climate 
change risk workshops. In these workshops, the team focused on industry and regulatory developments on climate change and how these developments apply to 
Shell’s business. The team also assessed the transition and physical climate risks facing Shell’s business, the audit risks associated with climate change and our 
planned audit response. An output from the workshop was a specific audit plan to address climate change risk in the 2022 audit, the key aspects of which are set out 
below.
In designing our audit procedures, we considered the CA 100+ Climate Accounting and Audit Alignment assessment of Shell, published by Carbon Tracker. We also 
considered the content of the document entitled "Investor Expectations for Paris-aligned Accounts", published on 5 November 2020 by the Institutional Investors 
Group on Climate Change (IIGCC), which was reiterated in a letter that EY received from Sarasin and Partners on 29 November 2022 titled Investor expectations: 
net zero-aligned accounts. The group engagement partner also met with the head of stewardship at Sarasin and Partners to discuss the IIGCC document.
The procedures performed to address the climate risks included:
Alignment of statements made in Strategic Report with the financial statements 
▪ in connection with our audit of the financial statements, we read the Other information in the Annual Report and Accounts (as defined in section 9 below) and, in 
doing so, considered whether the Other information, which includes Shell’s climate targets, are materially consistent with the financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained in the audit;
▪ evaluated whether the effects of material climate risks, as disclosed within Our journey to net zero on pages 78 to 105 within the Strategic report, had been 
appropriately reflected in asset values and associated financial statement disclosures, and in the timing, nature and measurement of liabilities recognised in 
accordance with IFRS, which is discussed further below;
▪ read and challenged the completeness of management’s disclosures in Note 4. We audited the sensitivity disclosures in Note 4 of the carrying value of Shell’s 
Upstream and Integrated Gas PP&E assets to a range of future oil and gas price assumptions, reflecting reduced demand scenarios due to climate change and the 
energy transition, including the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario. This included considering whether the downside sensitivities could have reduced the level 
of Shell’s distributable profits such that their 2022 dividends and repurchases of shares would not have been in compliance with the Companies Act. We also 
considered the appropriateness of the estimated useful lives of Shell’s refineries; and
▪ assessed whether the various climate change litigations represented obligations where the likelihood of a cash outflow was probable and therefore requiring 
provision. Also, we considered the appropriateness of the climate change litigation disclosures within Note 31, Legal proceedings and other contingencies, by 
comparing the disclosures to our understanding of the claims and allegations. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
223 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
223
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
The impact of climate change and the energy transition on the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Our response to the risk continued
The reflection of material climate change risks and the impact of Shell’s emissions reduction target in the critical accounting estimates 
and judgements
▪ tested management’s internal controls over the identification and estimation of costs of the potential impacts associated with energy transition and climate change, 
and related financial statement disclosures in Note 4;
▪ made enquiries of Group Planning, Group Reporting, Shell’s Carbon Strategy group and, where necessary, individual asset managers to understand and challenge 
management on how the following five transition and one physical risks of climate change were being factored into Shell’s financial statements:
1) The comparison of commodity price assumptions to energy transition scenarios 
▪ compared Shell’s oil and gas price assumptions to energy transition scenarios such as the International Energy Agency (‘IEA’) Announced Pledges Scenario ('APS') 
and Net Zero Emissions ('NZE50')
▪ considered specifically the extent to which management’s mid-price outlook and production assumptions incorporated the potential impact of climate change and 
the energy transition. This included consideration of assumed hydrocarbon and renewables demand and the impacts of such demand movements and supply 
constraints on future prices; 
▪ evaluated the reasonableness of Shell’s refining and petrochemical margin assumptions, by comparing Shell’s assumptions to external benchmarks, in light of the 
expected impact on demand for oil products in a transition to a net zero economy. Refining margin and petrochemical assumptions underpin the recoverable 
amount of refineries and petrochemical plants respectively;
2) The reasonableness of Shell’s forecast future carbon costs
▪ engaged our climate change and sustainability specialists to consider the appropriateness of Shell's carbon pricing methodology adopted and the reasonableness 
of the carbon prices applied in 10 countries. As part of this, we independently determined our view of a range of acceptable carbon price assumptions. Where 
countries were outside of our benchmarking ranges, we performed sensitivity analysis to determine if the impact of these different assumptions was material; and
▪ performed sensitivity analysis using the carbon price assumptions in both the IEA NZE50 and APS scenarios.
3) The incorporation of emissions reductions targets into Shell’s 2022 operating plan
▪ confirmed that Shell’s operating plan (OP22), included costs associated with Shell's plans to achieve Scope 1 and 2 emission reduction targets and their and net 
carbon intensity (‘NCI’) targets; and
▪ challenged the basis of assumed oil product sales reductions and power sales increases by comparing the assumptions applied in OP22 to external demand 
outlooks. We evaluated whether necessary renewable energy certificates and carbon credits, carbon storage plans and increased asset energy efficiencies 
included in OP22 were supported by executable plans by assessing whether the expected impact was based on historical experience and whether capital had 
been allocated to the project. 
4) The carbon intensity of Shell’s assets
▪ in order to identify assets that we regarded as carbon intensive (which we set at approximately 40kg/boe), we used our Climate Risk data analytics tool to identify 
correlations between reserves, production and emissions data; and
▪ for assets that we identified as carbon intensive that are expected to have material carrying value in 2030, we evaluated the risk that the carrying value of these 
assets will not be recovered. This included considering the decarbonisation plans of these assets and the associated costs. 
5) The useful economic lives of assets beyond 2030 and the risk of stranded assets
▪ verified that the oil, gas and carbon price sensitivity disclosures in Note 4 incorporated life of field assumptions; and
▪ estimated the carrying amount of the assets that were not forecast to be fully depreciated by 2050 to assess the risk of stranded assets beyond 2050.
6) Whether physical risk considerations have been incorporated into the asset plans
▪ with assistance from our climate change specialists, we performed a risk assessment on Shell’s assets from a physical risk perspective. The assessment considered 
asset and geographic specific factors to assign a physical risk exposure rating to Shell’s assets. Our assessment also considered forecast increased temperatures, 
forecast occurrence of hurricanes and rising sea levels.
▪ in order to assess whether these increased physical risks represented a trigger for impairment, we obtained an understanding of how management has 
incorporated historic, current and potential future risk into asset integrity plans. 
Our audit response relating to oil and gas reserves and the impairment of PP&E and JVAs is included in the KAMs on pages 226 to 228. 
Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit Committee 
We reported to the Audit Committee the key procedures that we had performed and the results of those procedures, which are set out below: 
Alignment of statements made in Strategic Report with the financial statements 
▪ We reported that we had not identified any material inconsistencies between Shell’s disclosures in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which covers 
the material impacts of climate-related matters, and the disclosures included within the Other information. 
▪ We reported that the various climate change litigations involving Shell did not represent obligations where the likelihood of a cash outflow is probable. We also 
reported that, based on our understanding of the claims and allegations, we were satisfied with the disclosures within Note 31, Legal proceedings and other 
contingencies. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
224 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
224
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
The impact of climate change and the energy transition on the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
 
Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit Committee continued
The reflection of material climate change risks and the impact of Shell's emissions reduction target in the critical accounting estimates 
and judgments
1) the comparison of Shell’s assumed future commodity price assumptions to energy transition scenarios
▪ We reported that Shell’s long-term oil and gas price assumptions and margin assumptions were reasonable and represent management’s current best estimate of 
the range of economic conditions that will exist in the foreseeable future. We have included our observations on Shell’s price assumptions, including margins, within 
the impairment of PP&E key audit matter on page 227.
▪ We concluded Shell’s oil and gas price assumptions are broadly in line with the IEA APS scenario from 2024 onwards. Shell’s Brent price assumption for 2023 is 
16% higher than the APS assumption; however, we were satisfied that Shell’s assumptions remain appropriate for 2023 as there is more external evidence to 
support price assumptions in the short term.
2) the reasonableness of Shell’s forecast future carbon costs
▪ We concluded that Shell had adopted an appropriate methodology to forecast carbon prices. Also, through our independent testing, we verified that Shell’s 
forecast carbon prices were within a reasonable range, other than for four countries. We have performed sensitivity analysis and we are satisfied that for the 
material assets in these countries: (1) there is sufficient headroom within the assets in these countries such that there is no impairment; and (2) these differences 
would not have a material impact on the overall carbon costs included in OP22.
▪ Our sensitivity analysis indicated that applying the IEA NZE50 carbon prices would not have a material impact on asset valuation, as the additional operating cost 
per annum is less than 2% of actual operating expenses in 2022. 
3) the incorporation of Shell’s stated climate targets within Shell’s operating plan
▪ We reported that Shell’s operating plan reflected the expected financial impact of management’s current planned actions to address these climate change risks. 
We confirmed that the operating and capital expenditure estimates to deliver the emissions reductions were included in the operating plan. Where impairment 
assessments were performed, we are satisfied that the climate change factors had been reflected in the assessments throughout the field life of the asset. 
▪ We have confirmed that the operating and capital expenditure estimates for the main assumed climate-related changes, including assumed oil product sales 
reductions, power sales increases, necessary renewable energy certificates and carbon credits, carbon storage plans and increased asset energy efficiencies, were 
supported by formal plans and the related costs were included in OP22. We also reported Shell’s assumed reductions in oil product sales on a percentage basis 
was more than the decrease in oil products demand in IEA’s APS and NZE50 scenario. 
4) the carbon intensity of Shell’s assets
▪ For assets that we assessed as carbon intensive, we are satisfied that the operating plan forecast expenditure included the expected costs of decarbonisation 
plans, thereby reducing the risk that the carrying value of these assets will not be recovered.
5) the useful economic lives of assets beyond 2030 and the risk of material stranded assets
▪ For Shell’s Upstream and IG assets, which are around $148 billion as at 31 December 2022, we projected the carrying value to 2050. We have estimated the 
2050 carrying amount of current Upstream and IG assets, based on SEC reserves. We have estimated approximately 10 assets would remain on the balance sheet 
in 2050, which would have an individual carrying value of less than our performance materiality. On this basis, we were satisfied that the risk of there being a 
material stranded assets in 2050 was low. We estimated the carrying value of Shell's Oil Mining Sands in 2050 and we were satisfied that by 2050, the carrying 
amount will be immaterial. We also concluded that there was a low risk of Shell’s current refineries being stranded as the assets are expected to be fully 
depreciated in the next 15 years. 
▪ Also, based on the climate risk factors we considered for each of the assets that we identified as higher risk from a climate perspective, we assessed the headroom 
in the most recent impairment models, the alignment of long term oil and gas price to IEA and the reasonableness of the costed plans in place to decarbonise the 
assets within the OP22 period and overall we concluded there was no impairment trigger arising from the impact of climate change in the 2022 financial 
statements.
6) whether physical risk considerations have been incorporated into Shell’s asset plans
▪ We concluded Shell have adequately considered physical risks in asset integrity plans and are satisfied that there was no impairment triggers. 
Other observations
▪ We reported that management’s controls over the identification and estimation of costs of carbon emissions, the potential financial statement impacts associated 
with climate change and energy transition, and the related financial statement disclosures, were designed and operating effectively.
▪ The E&E assets ($6.4 billion) that are being carried are consistent with both OP22 and Shell’s strategy. Our independent assessment of the appropriateness of 
carrying the E&E assets included consideration of their strategic fit and their carbon intensity. The assets that we assessed as being on our watch-list have 
decreased compared to 2021 and are now below our planning materiality level. We were satisfied that it remains appropriate to continue to carry these assets 
whilst the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting commercial reserves are still being assessed.
▪ $1 billion of Deferred Tax Assets (DTAs) are expected to be utilised by taxable profits that are forecast to be generated beyond OP22. The most significant 
judgements relate to the DTAs in countries where Shell primarily has a downstream presence where $0.2 billion is recognised against profits arising beyond OP22. 
However, the recognition of DTAs against profits beyond OP22 in these jurisdictions has decreased significantly from the prior year (2021: $0.8 billion) primarily as 
a result of utilisation of losses driven by increased profits from higher energy prices. As a result, the risk that there will be a material error in the recognition has 
decreased significantly. We are satisfied that the DTA recognition appropriately reflects climate and energy transition risk.
▪ Our procedures included consideration of the impact of our climate change findings on expected Decommissioning & Restoration (D&R) timing, including the 
recoding of D&R provisions for six refineries. We concluded that the Decommissioning & Restoration provisions are fairly stated.
▪ With regards to the sensitivity analyses provided by Shell in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including commodity and carbon prices, refining 
margins and the discount rate applied for impairment assessments, we were satisfied that the descriptions of the sensitivities reflected the sensitivities performed. 
Also, the prices and assumptions applied by Shell in their calculations were agreed to the scenarios as described. We reperformed the sensitivities and were 
satisfied that the ranges disclosed by Shell in Note 4 were materially correct, including the illustrative disclosures on the impact of commodity prices averaged from 
three 1.5-2 degrees Celsius external climate change scenarios and from the IEA NZE50 scenario.
▪ We reported to the Audit Committee that we had considered Shell’s dividend resilience statement in Note 4. Had Shell applied the IEA NZE50 scenario, and had 
this impairment of $23 billion directly reduced the carrying value of investments within the Parent Company, Shell plc, this would not have impacted the 
distributable reserves available to Shell from which to pay dividends in 2022. This is on the basis that Shell plc had a merger reserve of $234 billion and under 
Companies Act 2006, the adverse impact from an impairment would be on the merger reserve as opposed to distributable reserves.
Our audit observations relating to oil and gas reserves and impairment of PP&E and JVAs are included in the KAMs on pages 226 to 228.
Cross-reference: See the Audit Committee Report on page 172 for details on how the Audit Committee reviewed climate change and energy transition. See the Strategic Report on pages 83 to 87 
for details on energy transition strategy. Also, see Notes 2, 4, 12, 13, and 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
225 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
225
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
The estimation of oil and gas reserves
 
Description of the key audit matter
This is a forecast-based estimate. Oil and gas reserves estimates are used in the calculation of depreciation, depletion and 
amortisation (DD&A), impairment testing and in the estimation of decommissioning and restoration (D&R) provisions. The risk is the 
inappropriate recognition of proved reserves that impacts these accounting estimates. Given the current environment, there may be 
a heightened risk of proved reserves with a high carbon intensity not ultimately being produced (also see climate change and energy 
transition key audit matter). 
As described in Notes 12 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, at December 31, 2022, production assets amounted to $117.4 billion and had an 
associated DD&A charge of $9.7 billion and joint ventures and associates (JVAs) amounted to $23.9 billion. As further described in Note 12, exploration and 
production impairment losses of $0.9 billion and exploration and production impairment reversals of $6.0 billion were recorded during the year. As described in Note 
24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, D&R provisions amounted to $20.3 billion. 
If proved reserves are recognised that are not ultimately produced, depreciation will be understated, and the recoverable amount of assets may be overstated. In-year 
reserve movements are driven by revisions of previous estimates resulting from reclassifications, changes to recovery assumptions, extensions and discoveries and 
purchases and sales of reserves in place. Revisions generally arise from new information, for example additional drilling results, changes in production patterns and 
changes to development plans, which are an input to the cash flows used in the measurement of production assets and D&R provisions. 
Auditing the estimation of oil and gas reserves is complex. There is significant estimation uncertainty in assessing the quantities of reserves and resources in place. The 
estimates are based on the Company’s central group of experts’ assessments of petroleum initially in place, production curves and certain other inputs, including 
forecast production volumes, future capital and operating cost assumptions and life of field assumptions. Estimation uncertainty is further elevated given the transition 
to a low-carbon economy, which increases the risk of underutilised or stranded oil and gas assets.
Our response to the risk
We obtained an understanding of the controls over Shell’s oil and gas reserves’ estimation process. We then evaluated the design of these controls and tested their 
operating effectiveness. For example, we tested management’s controls over review of changes to year-on-year estimated oil and gas reserves volumes.
Our substantive audit procedures provided coverage of 69% of proved reserves.
We involved professionals with substantial oil and gas reserves audit experience in evaluating the key assumptions and methodologies applied by management.
Our procedures included, amongst others: 
▪ testing that significant additions or reductions in reserves had been made in the period in which the new information became available, by understanding the 
change in circumstance that drove the change;
▪ verifying that reserve movements were in compliance with Shell’s reserves and resources guidance and SEC regulations; 
▪ evaluating the professional qualifications and objectivity of management’s experts who performed the detailed preparation of the reserve estimates and those who 
are primarily responsible for providing independent review and challenge, and ultimately endorsement of, the reserve estimates. This covered around 20 individuals 
involved in the process; 
▪ evaluating management’s estimation of the point at which the operating cash flow from a project becomes negative (the economic limit), as this impacts DD&A and 
impairment. Where relevant, we assessed whether the economic limit test incorporated Shell’s estimate of future carbon costs to reflect the potential impact of 
climate change and the energy transition; 
▪ evaluating the completeness and accuracy of the inputs used by management in estimating the oil and gas reserves by agreeing the inputs to source 
documentation; 
▪ performing back-testing of historical data to identify indications of estimation bias over time;
▪ attending nine of Shell’s Upstream Reserves Committee meetings to observe the internal review and endorsement process. These meeting are part of Shell's proved 
reserves assurance process, which is described on page 308;
▪ we focused our audit procedures on those assets that are currently forecast to be producing beyond 2030 and the carbon intensity of the post 2030 production 
from those fields in order to identify assets that are carbon intensive, where there may be a higher risk of the reserves not ultimately being produced. The purpose of 
performing such analysis was to identify assets that were at higher risk of the current net book value being overstated. For volumes expected to be produced 
beyond 2050, we further analysed those assets with the most significant carrying amounts and assessed whether or not the expected production profile was 
consistent with Shell’s NZE ambitions.
Our procedures were led by the group engagement team, with input from our teams in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Malaysia, Nigeria, Qatar, and the USA.
Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit Committee
We reported to the Audit Committee in January 2023 that the inputs and assumptions used to estimate proved reserves and resources were reasonable. Also, we also 
reported that we had not identified any impairment triggers as a result of any of the movements in reserves during the year. In our view, Shell follows a robust process 
for recognising oil and gas reserves. 
We found no contra indicators that the recognition of the reserve volumes expected to be lifted beyond 2030 results in the overstatement of Shell’s balance sheet by 
overstating the recoverable amounts of Shell’s assets or understatement of D&R liabilities. For the reserves and resources that were expected to be produced post 
2050, we were satisfied that this was not inconsistent with Shell’s NZE ambitions and that it remains appropriate to recognise these reserves.
Please see key audit matter on the impact of climate change and the energy transition on the financial statements for details of our considerations on the carbon 
intensity associated with reserves expected to be produced beyond 2030.
Cross-reference: See the Audit Committee Report on page 172 for details on how the Audit Committee reviewed assurances for oil and gas reserves. Also, see Notes 2, 4, 12 and 24 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) on page 308.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
226 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
226
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
Impairment of Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and Joint ventures and associates (JVA)
Description of the key audit matter
This is a forecast-based estimate. The risk is that potential impairments are not identified on a timely basis, including whether the 
impacts of climate change and the energy transition have been considered in Shell’s impairment trigger assessments (also see climate 
change and energy transition key audit matter). 
As described in Notes 12, and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, at December 31, 2022 Shell recognised $117.4 billion of production assets, $49.9 billion 
of manufacturing, supply and distribution assets (primarily refineries and petrochemical plants) and $23.9 billion of joint ventures and associates (JVAs). As disclosed 
in Note 12, in 2022, Shell recognised $1.8 billion impairment losses and $6.2 impairment loss reversals. As discussed in Note 13, Shell recognised an impairment loss 
of $1.6 billion related to the withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities.
As Shell recorded pre-tax impairment charges of $26.7 billion of PP&E and JVAs in 2020, the recoverable amounts are sensitive to smaller changes in key 
assumptions, which increases the risk of indicators of impairment or impairment reversal not being identified. Our audit effort has therefore focused on the 
completeness and timely identification of indicators of impairment charges or impairment reversals. 
Auditing the impairment assessments is subjective due to the significant amount of judgement involved in determining whether indicators of impairment or impairment 
reversal exist, particularly for longer term assets. Indicators should reflect significant upward or downward revisions in assumptions impacting the future potential long-
term value of an asset, rather than drivers of short-term fluctuations in value. 
Assumptions underpinning the impairment or impairment assessments include:
▪ changes in forecast oil and gas prices, in particular over the mid-to-long term;
▪ changes in petrochemical and refining margin assumptions;
▪ movements in oil and gas reserves;
▪ the assumed weighted average cost of capital (WACC);
▪ cash generating units (CGUs) assessments, which sets the level upon which impairment assessments are considered; and
▪ individual asset impairment assessments including the impacts of Shell's withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities.
As described in Note 2, the most complex of these judgements relate to management’s view on the long-term oil and gas price outlook. Forecasting future prices is 
inherently difficult, as it requires forecasts that reflect developments in demand such as global economic growth, technology efficiency, policy measures and, on the 
supply side, consideration of investment and resource potential, cost of development of new supply and behaviour of major resource holders. These judgements are 
particularly difficult because of increased demand uncertainty and pace of decarbonisation due to climate change and the energy transition. 
Our response to the risk
We obtained an understanding of the controls over Shell’s asset impairment process. We then evaluated the design of these controls and tested their operating 
effectiveness. For example, we tested the controls over management’s identification of indicators of impairment and reversals of impairment and the approval of oil 
and gas prices and petrochemical and refining margins.
Our procedures included, amongst others: 
Oil and gas prices
▪ assessing the reasonableness of future short and long-term oil and gas price assumptions by comparing these to an independently developed reasonable range of 
forecasts based on consensus analysts’ forecasts and those adopted by other energy companies; 
▪ given the continued improvement in commodity prices and short-term refining margins, assessing whether these higher price markers represented a trigger for 
impairment reversal; and
▪ comparing Shell’s oil and gas price scenarios to the IEA’s Net Zero Emissions 2050 (NZE50) and to the IEA’s APS price assumptions as potential contradictory 
evidence for best estimates of future oil and gas prices. The APS assumes that all climate commitments made by governments around the world, including 
Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and longer-term net zero targets, will be met in full and on time.
Petrochemical and refining margins
▪ we involved our valuations specialists to assess the reasonableness of Shell’s margin estimation methodologies and assumptions; 
▪ evaluating the reasonableness of Shell’s refining margin assumptions by comparing these to independent market and consultant forecasts;
▪ as there are only a few market consultants who forecast petrochemical product prices and there are no consultant forecasts of chemical margins, we evaluated the 
reasonableness of Shell’s petrochemical margin assumptions by independently projecting margins. We did this by using regression analysis and performing 
correlation analysis of historical product prices to historical margins to cross check future external prices to assumed margins; and
▪ considering whether the downward pressure on petrochemical margins represented an impairment trigger by assessing the impact of reduced margins in the 
context of the overall lives of Shell’s petrochemical facilities.
Oil and gas reserves
▪ see oil and gas reserves key audit matter. 
WACC
▪ with the assistance of valuation specialists, independently assessing a range of reasonable input assumptions for calculating Shell’s WACC; and
▪ assessing whether Shell’s risking in their impairment assessments, through both a discount rate and individual asset cashflows, adequately reflects the risks 
associated with Shell’s different classes of assets.
CGUs
▪ challenging management's identification of CGUs based on industry practice and how cash flows are generated.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
227 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
227
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
Impairment of Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and Joint ventures and associates (JVA) continued
Our response to the risk continued
Individual assessments
▪ evaluating Shell’s assessment of impairment losses and impairment reversal triggers, including changes in the forecast commodity price assumptions, movements in 
oil and gas reserves (see oil and gas reserves key audit matter), changes in asset performance, changes in Shell’s operating plan assumptions, including those 
relating to Shell’s carbon emissions reductions targets, and whether these are indicators of impairment or impairment reversal; 
▪ separately from management, for material assets, we also assessed independently whether or not indicators of impairment or reversal triggers exist and considered 
the existence of contradictory evidence such as external commentary on asset performance, which could indicate a significant increase or decrease in the 
recoverable amount of any of Shell’s assets; 
▪ where triggers were identified, we assessed the inputs to the impairment assessment by comparing forecasts to OP22 and life of field plans, historical actuals and 
other independent expectations. We also performed a consistency check on the assumptions to other assumptions applied by the group; 
▪ testing the model integrity of material impairment assessments.
▪ evaluating the assumptions used in the preparation of the 2022 operating plan at a group, segment and asset level and compared the actual performance of 
assets to the forecasts made in the prior year; 
▪ considered the existence of other contradictory evidence, such as the results of any comparable market transactions that could indicate a significant increase or 
decrease in the recoverable amount of any of Shell’s assets, public comments or commitments made by Shell in relation to the Powering Progress strategy and 
whether these could impact the future potential value of any assets; and
▪ assessing potential operational changes that have or are expected to have a significant adverse effect on an asset, such unplanned shutdowns, and whether they 
should be considered as impairment triggers.
The audit procedures were performed primarily by our group engagement team as well as our local audit teams in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Kazakhstan, 
Malaysia, Nigeria, Qatar, Trinidad & Tobago, UK and USA.
Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit Committee
In January 2023, we reported to the Audit Committee that:
Oil and gas prices
▪ Shell’s oil and gas price assumptions are in line with the requirements of IAS 36 for the purposes of PP&E and JVA impairment assessments. We believe that the 
assumptions are reasonable when compared against a range of third party forecasts and peer information. Given supply and demand uncertainties, we do not 
believe that Shell’s Brent assumptions are overly conservative by being at the lower end of a range of international oil companies.
▪ Shell’s assumed oil prices are broadly consistent with the IEA’s APS price assumptions; however, in 2023-2024 Shell’s Brent price assumption is 16% higher than 
the APS assumption. We were satisfied that Shell’s assumptions remain appropriate for 2023 as there is more evidence to support price assumptions in the short 
term. Shell’s Henry Hub price assumptions were broadly similar to the IEA APS scenario and lower in the short term. 
Petrochemical and refining margins
▪ The short-term decline in petrochemical margins in 2022 does not represent an impairment trigger for Shell’s chemicals assets given the expected increase in 
margins in the medium-term. Prices are expected to increase in the medium-term as: (1) lower margins are not sustainable for an extended period, which is 
supported by our own reversion to mean analysis of historical margins; and (2) feedstock prices are expected to fall from current high levels (primarily gas prices 
and refinery margins). We also do not consider the higher refining margins experienced in 2022 represent a trigger for impairment reversal for Shell’s refineries.
Oil and gas reserves
▪ See oil and gas reserves key audit matter. 
WACC
▪ Shell’s impairment discount rate overall is reasonable when you consider the WACC applied and additional risking included in the cash flows of individual assets.
CGUs
▪ Shell’s CGU assessment is in line with IFRS. Shell’s approach to identifying CGUs is well established and follows industry practice. For low-carbon assets, which are 
often located on the same site as other Shell assets, it is appropriate to treat these assets as separate CGUs.
Individual asset assessments
▪ We believe that Shell’s impairment assessment process is in line with IFRS. For the assets where management’s impairment assessment resulted in an impairment 
loss or reversal, the charges or reversals were within an acceptable range. Also, we were satisfied that the impairment charges were recorded in the appropriate 
period
▪ Shell’s upwards revision to their oil and gas price assumptions represented a trigger for the potential reversal of previously recorded impairments. The subsequent 
impairment reversal of $6 billion is within our range of acceptable outcomes. For those assets where an impairment loss was reversed, there was limited judgement 
as in most cases, the headroom was well in excess of the potential maximum reversal. Where impairment reversals were not recorded, we were satisfied that other 
factors, such as asset performance, meant that a reversal would not have been appropriate.
▪ For the Russian-related impairments, we were satisfied that Shell had performed a thorough exercise to determine the appropriate accounting for each of the 
ventures impacted by Shell’s withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities.
Cross-reference: See the Audit Committee Report on page 172 for details on how the Audit Committee considered impairments. Also, see Notes 2, 4, 6, 12 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
228 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
228
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
Accounting for complex transactions within Shell's Trading and Supply (T&S) function and the valuation of financial 
derivatives
Description of the key audit matter
This is an estimation based on both complex valuations and uncertain inputs to valuations, and requires judgements in the accounting 
treatment. There is a risk of error in revenue due to the increased complexity of trades that are executed by Shell’s T&S function. 
Also, there is an inherent higher risk of unauthorised trading activity or deliberate misstatement of trading positions due to the 
volume and complexity of trades that are executed by T&S. 
As described in Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, at December 31, 2022 Shell recognised $381 billion of revenue. As described in Note 25, Shell 
recognised commodity derivatives assets of $23.7 billion and commodity derivatives liabilities of $22.9 billion.
Also, Shell has identified trading in their risk factors on pages 22 to 24, which form part of the "Other information", rather than the audited financial statements. 
Shell’s T&S function is integrated within the Integrated Gas, Upstream, Marketing, Chemicals and Products and Renewables and Energy Solutions segments. The 
function executes and settles over a thousand standard vanilla trades a day across multiple geographic locations; however, the business also enters into non-standard 
complex trades. The number of these complex trades have increased year on year as Shell is increasingly focussed on growth in low carbon fuels and on executing 
long-term renewable power offtake and sale contracts in existing and new markets. 
The T&S function has a traditional commodity trading structure, with a defined front, middle and back office for the execution, monitoring and settlement of trades. The 
IT environment supporting the function is complex and involves a large number of systems. Consequently, there is a high level of manual intervention required in 
operating the business, largely controlled through detective financial controls within the back and middle office. 
The global regulatory requirements for commodity traders continue to increase, which, together with the increase in complexity of trades, means there is greater 
financial, reputational and operational risk within the business. 
Auditing unrealised trading gains and losses arising from non standard trades is complex because of the significant judgement used in determining the appropriate 
accounting treatment, and the key assumptions used in valuing the trades. Trading is not always carried out in active markets where prices are readily available, 
increasing subjectivity used in determining the pricing curve and volatility assumptions, which are key inputs to valuing the trades.
Furthermore, the lack of market transparency of executed deals creates significant opportunity for unauthorised trading activity or deliberate misstatement of Shell’s 
trading positions or mismarking of positions. This creates a risk of understated trading losses, overstated trading profits and/or individual bonuses being manipulated 
through inappropriate inter-period profit/loss allocations.
Our response to the risk
We obtained an understanding of the controls over Shell’s process for the recognition of revenue relating to unrealised trading gains and losses, including controls 
over management’s processes around complex deals accounting and valuations. We then evaluated the design of these controls and tested their operating 
effectiveness. For example, we tested controls around the review of pricing curves and volatility assumptions applied in the valuation models.
We involved professionals with significant experience auditing large commodity trading organisations. Our audit procedures focus on the appropriateness of the 
accounting treatment and the valuation of these contracts. In our audit we:
▪ tested the completeness of the complex deal register, to ensure it contained all material, complex and long dated trades;
▪ obtained an understanding of the commercial rationale of complex and long-dated deals by analysing transaction documentation and agreements, and through 
discussions with management;
▪ performed an independent assessment of the accounting treatment of complex and long-dated deals, challenging managements accounting treatment against 
contract terms and previous accounting judgements. Where relevant, we involved our technical accounting specialists to assist in this assessment;
▪ assessed the reasonableness of Shell’s valuation methodology by comparing it to market practice, analysing whether a consistent framework was applied and 
confirmed the consistency of inputs used in deal valuations with other assumptions applied in the financial statements, for example impairment assumptions; 
▪ tested the forward pricing curve and volatility assumptions in management’s valuation models, including comparisons to external broker quotes, market consensus 
providers and our independent assessments; 
▪ involved valuation specialists to assist us in performing independent testing of complex valuation models, including Level 3 contracts; long-dated offtake contracts; 
and contracts with illiquid components. Our valuations were established using independently sourced inputs and specialists’ judgement for certain unobservable 
parameters; 
▪ reviewed valuation reserve adjustments, such as credit valuation adjustments, and reperformed the calculation for a sample of material contracts; 
▪ tested key controls around management’s onerous contract assessment, including how management assess completeness; 
▪ we challenged management’s accounting consideration of whether forward physical contracts to buy and sell LNG are in the scope of IFRS 9 and should be fair 
valued. 
▪ performed a suite of third party confirmation tests for the completeness of forward positions recorded by Shell. Our tests included requesting Shell’s counterparties 
to confirm their entire position with Shell; asking counterparties to provide details of individual trades per their records; and, sending confirmations to key 
counterparties for which there was a material position in the previous year but no material position in the current year; and
▪ searched for unrecorded liabilities by identifying any transactions after the reporting date that were settlements of derivatives, determining if the transaction being 
settled was appropriately included or excluded from the open trading position at year-end and whether they were recorded in the correct period.
The audit procedures were performed principally by the group engagement team and the UK and US component teams.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
229 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
229
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

6. Our assessment of key audit matters continued
Accounting for complex transactions within Shell's Trading and Supply (T&S) function and the valuation of financial 
derivatives continued
 
Key observations communicated to the Shell Audit Committee
In January 2023, we reported to the Audit Committee that:
▪ The valuation of complex and long-dated derivative contracts was appropriate and in accordance with accounting standards;
▪ Unrealised gains and losses related to complex and long-dated deals were recorded appropriately in the financial statements; 
▪ Management’s key accounting judgments and the application of their accounting polices, including the accounting treatment of non-standard deals related to 
illiquid non-financial items, were appropriate; and
▪ We also highlighted that the accounting judgement around LNG liquidity was a significant judgement. We explained that we were satisfied that, under current 
market conditions, management’s conclusion remains appropriate on the basis that:
▪ contracts in the LNG portfolio do not include a provision for, nor is there a significant history of, express net settlement via mechanisms such as book outs;
▪ Shell is active in the short-term LNG physical market. Judgement is required to determine if this presence relates merely to optimisation of the group’s long-term 
portfolio of contracts, or, for the purpose of taking advantage of short-term price fluctuations or to realise dealer’s margins. The latter would constitute net 
settlement practices under IFRS 9. The ability to demonstrate such net settlement practices is inherently reliant on the underlying liquidity of the market. Shell has 
assessed a range of market liquidity indicators, which do not indicate any increase in liquidity since the previous assessment performed. Shipping constraints, 
demand/supply imbalances, sanctions, and a reduction in market participants due to the liquidity challenges of hedging in high price environments have all 
hampered the increase of LNG liquidity in the past twelve months. 
Cross-reference: See the Audit Committee Report on page 172 for details on how the Audit Committee reviewed the Trading and Supply’s control framework. Also see Notes 8 and 25 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
In our 2021 opinion, we included key audit matters in respect of exploration and evaluation (E&E) assets, decommissioning and restoration (D&R) 
provisions and the recognition and measurement of DTAs. We have not included these areas as key audit matters in our 2022 opinion. Within the 
E&E assets balance of $6.5 billion (2021: $7.1 billion) the assets that we believed were most at risk of being developed by Shell or being divested, 
and therefore potentially being written off or impaired was now below our planning materiality level. Whilst the D&R provision balance of $20.3 
billion (2021: $22.1 billion) is material, the main movements in the provision, such as the impact of discounting, did not involve significant 
judgement. As shown in Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the only movements in the year that were above our materiality were 
the removal of D&R provisions for assets that have been disposed of, a decrease as a result of a change in discount rate, which is not judgemental, 
and changes in cost estimates, which did not involve significant judgement. Also, in prior years, Shell recorded D&R provisions for refineries rather 
than assume the decommissioning date was indeterminable. In 2022, the subjectivity involved in auditing the recognition and measurement of 
DTA balances reduced, with the amount of DTAs supported by the expectation of future taxable profits arising beyond Shell’s regular forecast 
planning horizon now being below our planning materiality. Our ongoing challenge of the impact of climate change on these matters is covered 
in our climate change key audit matter.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
230 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
230
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

7. Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, as well as in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on 
our audit and in forming our audit opinion. 
 
Overall materiality
What we mean
We define materiality as the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our procedures.
Level set
Group materiality
We set our preliminary overall materiality for Shell’s Consolidated Financial Statements 
at $1.2 billion (2021: $1 billion). We kept this under review throughout the year and 
reassessed the appropriateness of our original assessment in the light of Shell’s results 
and external market conditions. We did not find it necessary to revise our level of 
overall materiality.
Parent Company materiality
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be $1.2 billion (2021: 
$1 billion), which is 0.6% of equity (2021: 0.4%). We concluded that equity 
remains an appropriate basis to determine materiality for an investment 
holding company. The range we normally apply when determining 
materiality on an equity measurement basis is 1- 2%. We applied a lower 
percentage to align the materiality of the Parent Company with that of the 
Group.
Our basis of determining materiality
Our assessment of overall materiality that we applied throughout the year was $1.2 billion, which represented 2.6% of the two-year average Adjusted Earnings pre-
tax (see table below). We normally apply 5% when determining materiality on a profit measurement basis; however, actual 2022 results were higher than what we 
based our assessment on and we did not revise our materiality upwards. Our materiality was derived from an average of Shell’s earnings, including an initial estimate 
of the 2022 result, on an Adjusted Earnings basis, which we then adjusted for an average effective tax rate. At the end of the year, we reassessed materiality based 
on the actual results for 2022. As disclosed on page 362 within non-GAAP measures reconciliations, the "Adjusted Earnings" measure aims to facilitate a comparative 
understanding of Shell’s financial performance from period to period by removing the effects of oil price changes on inventory carrying amounts and removing the 
effects of identified items. Shell’s identified items are disclosed on page 363.
Our key criterion in determining materiality remains our perception of the needs of Shell’s stakeholders. We consider which earnings, activity or capital-based measure 
aligns best with their expectations. In so doing, we apply a ‘reasonable investor perspective’, which reflects our understanding of the common financial information 
needs of the members of Shell as a group. 
We continue to believe that these needs are best met by basing materiality on normalised Adjusted Earnings on a pre-tax basis. This approach removes both the 
effects of changes in oil price on inventory carrying amounts (current cost of supplies adjustment as defined on page 362) and non-recurring gains and charges 
disclosed as identified items on page 363 that can significantly distort Shell’s results in any one particular year. Through applying a normalised earnings approach, 
large year-on-year swings in materiality are minimised. These swings would be driven primarily by price fluctuations rather than specific structural changes to Shell’s 
business. 
We have considered alternative benchmarks to Adjusted Earnings, including profit before taxation and EBITDA. These indicate a range of $1.5 billion to $2.4 billion. 
We believe that a normalised Adjusted Earnings approach remains appropriate on the basis that:
▪ segment earnings are presented on an Adjusted Earnings basis, which is the earnings measure used by CEO for the purposes of making decisions about allocating 
resources and assessing performance; 
▪ Adjusted Earnings exclude the effect of changes in the oil price on inventory carrying amounts, allowing investors to understand how management has performed 
despite the commodity price environment, as opposed to because of it;
▪ analyst forecasts predominately feature Adjusted Earnings, which exclude identified items, as the basis for earnings. The analyst consensus data supports our 
judgement that Adjusted Earnings remains the key indicator of performance from a reasonable investor perspective; and 
▪ although this is an unprecedented time for Shell and the industry and there is uncertainty around the future price environment, views of economists and market 
participants was that the supply/demand balance will be re-addressed over time.
By applying a normalised Adjusted Earnings approach, we have concluded that it is appropriate to apply a materiality of $1.2 billion (2021: $1.0 billion).
The Adjusted Earnings were as follows:
 
$ billion 2022 2021
Adjusted Earnings (see page 362)  39.9  19.3 
Estimated tax impact based on the average effective tax rate  22.5  10.7 
Adjusted Earnings pre-tax  62.4  30.0 
Materiality percentage on the average Adjusted Earnings pre-tax 2021-2022 2.6%
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
231 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
231
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

7. Our application of materiality continued
 
Performance materiality
What we mean
Having established overall materiality, we determined ‘performance materiality’, which represents our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account. It is 
calculated as a percentage of overall materiality in order to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected 
misstatements exceeds overall materiality of $1.2 billion for Shell’s financial statements as a whole. We assigned performance materiality to our various in-scope 
operating units. The performance materiality allocation is dependent on the size of the operating unit, measured by its contribution of earnings to Shell, or other 
appropriate metric, and the risk associated with the operating unit.
Level set
In our assessment for 2022, we considered the nature, number and impact of the audit differences identified in 2021. We also noted the way in which management 
navigated the financial statement close throughout 2021, and the fact that we did not experience any notable increase in control deficiencies in the prior year audit. 
Based on our assessment of these factors, our judgement was that performance materiality for the 2022 audit should be 75% (2021: 75%) of our overall materiality 
or $0.9 billion (2021: $0.75 billion). 
The level of materiality that we applied in undertaking our audit work at the operating unit level, for the purpose of obtaining coverage over significant financial 
statements accounts, was determined by applying a percentage of our total performance materiality. This percentage is based on the significance of the operating 
unit relative to Shell as a whole and our assessment of the risk of material misstatement at that operating unit. In 2022 the range of materiality applied at the 
operating unit level was $135 million to $585 million (2021: $113 million to $488 million). 
The planning and performance materiality was kept under ongoing review, but the conclusion remained unchanged at our year-end re-assessment of materiality. 
Audit difference reporting threshold
What we mean
This is the amount below which identified misstatements are clearly trivial. The threshold is the level above which we collate and report audit differences to the Audit 
Committee. We also report differences below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds. We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements 
against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Level set
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences more than $60 million (2021: $50 million), as well as differences 
below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. This represents 5% of our planning materiality (2021: 5%).
8. Our scope of the audit of Shell's financial statements 
What we mean
We are required to establish an overall audit strategy that sets the scope, timing, and direction of our audit. Audit scope comprises the physical locations, operating 
units, activities, and processes to be audited that, in aggregate, are expected to provide sufficient coverage of the financial statements for us to express an audit 
opinion.
 
Criteria for determining our audit scope and selection of in-scope operating units
Our assessment of audit risk and our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determined our audit scope for each operating unit within 
Shell which, when taken together, enabled us to form an opinion on the financial statements. Our audit effort was focused towards higher risk areas, such as 
management judgements, and on operating units that we considered significant based upon size, complexity or risk.
We assessed our 2022 audit scope following the completion of our 2021 audit. We identified those Areas of Operation (AoOs or operating units) that were 
significant by virtue of their contribution to Shell’s results or significant by virtue of their associated risk or complexity. In doing this we considered the history or 
expectation of unusual or complex transactions, potential for or history of material misstatements, the previous effectiveness of controls, our forensic assessment in 
relation to fraud, bribery or corruption, and internal audit findings. We then considered the adequacy of account coverage and remaining audit risk of AoOs not 
directly covered by audit procedures. Finally, we sense checked our scope to the prior year; ensured that there was appropriate unpredictability in our scope and 
made the necessary changes where appropriate. We applied our Risk Scan analytics techniques, which consolidate internal and external data to inform us on higher 
risk components to be included in scope. This allowed us to risk rate the group’s operating units. We identified 101 operating units where we believed that it was 
appropriate to carry out targeted testing. 
By following this approach, our audit effort focused on higher risk areas, such as management judgements. Our group wide procedures enabled us to obtain audit 
evidence over the AoOs that were not full, specific or specified procedure scope.
We did not make substantial changes to our 2021 assessment of the components where we performed full or specific scope audit procedures. Also, there were no 
significant changes to the number of IT applications we tested. However, what did change was the nature and emphasis of our testing in response to our significant 
audit risks and areas of audit focus.
We kept our audit scope under review throughout the year to reflect changes in Shell’s underlying business and risks; however, no significant changes were required. 
The table below illustrates the scope of work performed by our audit teams:
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
232 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
232
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

8. Our scope of the audit of Shell's financial statements continued
 
Operating units 2022 2021 No. of countries Basis of inclusion Extent of procedures
Full scope 9 13 7 Size or significant risk Complete financial information
Specific scope 35 35 12 Significant risk Individual account balances
Specified procedures
1
54 45 22 Other risk factors Individual transactions or processes
Other procedures 698 683 86 Residual risk of error Supplementary audit procedures
2
Total 796 776
1 These procedures were performed by components and at the group level, to address specified risks of the audit or for audit coverage purposes.
2 We performed supplementary audit procedures in relation to Shell’s centralised group accounting and reporting processes. These included, but were not limited to, addressing the implications 
of significant and complex accounting matters across all operating units, procedures over revenue to cash process analytics, review of impairment or impairment reversal indicators by 
segments, procedures over the forecasts as they relate to deferred tax asset recoverability and review of pension scheme assumptions, procedures over unusual accounting transactions 
including trading mark-to-market valuations, acquisitions, divestments and redundancies, addressing the appropriate elimination of intercompany balances and the completeness of provisions 
for litigation and other claims, including those related to non-compliance with laws and regulations. We performed testing of both manual and consolidation journal entries throughout the 
year, homogenous processes, and controls at the Business Service Centres (BSCs) and testing of group wide IT systems. We performed a disaggregated analytical review on each financial 
statement line item and also tested Shell’s analytical procedures performed at a group, segment and function level. We also performed cash testing. 
 
Coverage
Our coverage by full, specific, specified and group procedures is illustrated below. The summary is by Total Assets, Adjusted Earnings and Revenue. Overall, our full, 
specific and specified procedures accounted for 64% of Shell’s absolute Adjusted Earnings reported by Shell in its quarterly results announcements and adjusted for 
an effective tax rate. The remaining Adjusted Earnings were covered by Group wide procedures. 
The Parent Company is located in the United Kingdom and audited directly by the Group engagement team 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
233 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
a  Full scope
b  Specific scope
c   Specified 
procedures
d   Covered 
by other 
procedures
Revenue
40%
a
b
c
c
d
a
b
d
c
a
b
d
45%
4%
11%
Total
Assets
26%
32%
18%
24%
Adjusted
Earnings
20%
33%
11%
36%
233
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

8. Our scope of the audit of Shell's financial statements continued
 
Group evaluation, review and oversight of component teams
The group engagement partner and Senior Statutory Auditor, Gary Donald, has overall responsibility for the direction, supervision and performance of the Shell audit 
engagement in compliance with professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. He is supported by segment and function partners, who are 
based in the Netherlands and the UK, and who together with related staff comprise the integrated group engagement team. This group engagement team established 
the overall group audit strategy, communicated with component auditors, performed work on the consolidation process, and evaluated the conclusions drawn from 
the audit evidence as the basis for forming EY’s opinion on the group financial statements. 
The group engagement team is responsible for directing, supervising, evaluating and reviewing the work of EY global network firms operating under their instruction 
(local EY teams) to assess whether: 
▪ the local EY audit team had the appropriate level of experience;
▪ the work was performed and documented to a sufficiently high standard; 
▪ the local EY audit team demonstrated that they had challenged management sufficiently and had executed their audit procedures with an appropriate level of 
scepticism; and
▪ there is sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support the conclusions reached.
The group engagement team provided detailed instructions to our component teams to drive the audit strategy and execution in a coordinated manner. Group audit 
partners visited Australia, Brazil, Malaysia, Singapore, USA, covering operating units from all segments and functions. In addition, Group audit partners visited all of 
Shell’s BSCs on at least one occasion, which included India, Poland, Malaysia and Philippines. During these visits, we exercised direction, supervision, oversight and 
review of our overseas EY audit teams. We were satisfied that we have had adequate involvement in their work and that we exercised sufficient and appropriate 
direction to the component teams. 
Our oversight of component teams included maintaining a continuous and open dialogue with our global component teams, as well as holding formal closing 
meetings quarterly, to ensure that we were fully aware of their progress and results of their procedures. Also, group audit partners visited our T&S component teams in 
India, the UK and US and visited Shell’s trading operations in Singapore, UK and Singapore. 
Involvement with local EY teams
Shell has centralised processes and controls over key areas within its BSCs. Members of the group engagement team provide direct oversight, review, and 
coordination of our BSC audit teams. Our BSC teams performed centralised testing in the BSCs for certain accounts, including revenue, cash and payroll. In 
establishing our overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the operating units or BSCs by the 
group engagement team or by auditors from other local EY teams.
For the operating units where the work was performed by local EY auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement of the group engagement team to 
enable us to conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained, as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole. 
During the 2022 audit, the group team were able to carry out 16 physical site visits, including Australia, Brazil, India, Malaysia, Philippines, Poland, Singapore and 
the US. In addition, we performed virtual site visit in Nigeria. These visits were carried out multiple times during the audit and were attended by either the Senior 
Statutory Auditor or other group audit partners on the group engagement team. We also joined the Audit Committee at their site visit to the London trading floor 
which is discussed in the Audit Committee report on page 169.
9. Other information
The Other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 219 and 357 to 392 including the Strategic 
Report, Governance, Supplementary Information and Additional Information sections, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. The Directors are responsible for the Other information contained within the Annual Report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, 
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such 
material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the 
financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other 
information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
10. Opinions on Other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
▪ the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and 
▪ the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
234 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
234
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

11. Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, 
we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
▪ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
▪ the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
▪ certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
▪ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
12. Corporate Governance Statement
We have reviewed the directors’ statement in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to the group and company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review by 
the Listing Rules.
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the Corporate Governance 
Statement is materially consistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained during the audit:
▪ Directors’ statement with regards to 
the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any material uncertainties 
identified set out on page 219;
▪ Directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the period is appropriate 
set out on page 213;
▪ Director’s statement on whether it has a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meets its liabilities set 
out on page 213;
▪ Directors’ statement on 
fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 219;
▪ Board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out on page 217;
▪ The section of the annual report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems set out on 
page 217; and;
▪ The section describing the work of the audit committee set out on page 167.
13. Responsibilities of the Directors'
As explained more fully in the statement of Directors’ responsibilities set out on page 219, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors 
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing Shell and the Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either 
intend to liquidate Shell or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
14. Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISA (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
15. Explanation as to what extent our audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, 
outlined above, to detect irregularities, including fraud.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. However, the primary responsibility 
for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows:
▪ We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to Shell and determined that the most significant are 
those that relate to the reporting framework (UK adopted international accounting standards, IFRS as issued by the IASB, Companies Act 
2006, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority) and the 
relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which Shell operates. In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws 
and regulations that may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and those laws and 
regulations relating to health and safety, employee matters, environmental, and bribery and corruption practices.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
235 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
235
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

15. Explanation as to what extent our audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud 
continued
▪ We understood how Shell is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, and those responsible for 
legal and compliance procedures. We corroborated our enquiries through our review of Board minutes, papers provided to the Audit 
Committee and correspondence received from regulatory bodies and noted that there was no contradictory evidence.
▪ We assessed the susceptibility of Shell’s Consolidated Financial Statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by 
embedding forensic specialists into our group engagement team. Our forensic specialists worked with the group engagement team to identify 
the fraud risks across various parts of the business. In addition, we utilised internal and external information to perform a fraud risk assessment 
for each of the countries of operation. We considered the risk of fraud through management override and, in response, we incorporated data 
analytics across manual journal entries into our audit approach. We also considered the possibility of fraudulent or corrupt payments made 
through third parties and conducted detailed analytical testing on third party vendors in high risk jurisdictions. Where instances of risk behaviour 
patterns were identified through our data analytics, we performed additional audit procedures to address each identified risk. These procedures 
included the testing of transactions back to source information and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements were free from fraud or error. We also conducted specific audit procedures in relation to the risk of bribery and corruption across 
various countries of operation determined on a risk-based approach.
▪ Based on the results of our risk assessment we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations 
identified above. Our procedures involved journal entry testing, with a focus on journals meeting our defined risk criteria based on our 
understanding of the business; enquiries of legal counsel, group management, internal audit and all full and specific scope management; review 
of the volume and nature of complaints received by the whistleblowing hotline during the year; review of internal audit reports issued during the 
year; review of news releases published by external parties; and
▪ If any instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations were identified, these were communicated to the relevant local EY teams who 
performed sufficient and appropriate audit procedures, supplemented by audit procedures performed at the group level.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
https://www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.
16. Other matters we are required to address
Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were re-appointed by Shell plc’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) on May 24, 2022, 
as auditors of Shell to hold office until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company, and signed an engagement letter on .July 27, 2022. Our 
total uninterrupted period of engagement is seven years covering periods from our appointment through to the period ending December 31, 2022. 
Our audit opinion is consistent with our additional report to the Audit Committee explaining the results of our audit.
17. Use of our report
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and 
the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
 
/s/ Gary Donald (Senior Statutory Auditor)
Gary Donald
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP
London
March 8, 2023
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Shell plc continued
236 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
236
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Consolidated
Financial
Statements
238 Consolidated Statement of Income
238 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
239 Consolidated Balance Sheet
240 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
241 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
242 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
242 Note 1 Basis of preparation
242 Note 2 Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates 
252 Note 3 Changes to IFRS not yet adopted
252 Note 4 Climate change and energy transition
261 Note 5 Emission schemes and related environmental plans
262 Note 6 Withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities
264 Note 7 Capital Management
265 Note 8 Segment information
269 Note 9 Interest and other income
270 Note 10 Interest expense
270 Note 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets
271 Note 12 Property, plant and equipment
275 Note 13 Joint ventures and associates
276 Note 14 Investments in securities
277 Note 15 Trade and other receivables
277 Note 16 Inventories
278 Note 17 Cash and cash equivalents
278 Note 18 Assets held for sale
278 Note 19 Trade and other payables
279 Note 20 Debt
278 Note 21 Leases
283 Note 22 Taxation
285 Note 23 Retirement benefits
292 Note 24 Decommissioning and other provisions
293 Note 25 Financial instruments
299 Note 26 Share capital
300 Note 27 Share-based compensation plans and shares held in trust
301 Note 28 Other reserves
303 Note 29 Dividends
303 Note 30 Earnings per share
303 Note 31 Legal proceedings and other contingencies
306 Note 32 Employees
306 Note 33 Directors and Senior Management
307 Note 34 Auditor’s remuneration
307 Note 35 Post-balance sheet events
Financial Statements and Supplements
237
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Consolidated Statement of Income
$ million
Notes 2022 2021 2020
Revenue 8  381,314  261,504  180,543 
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 13  3,972  4,097  1,783 
Interest and other income 9  915  7,056  869 
Total revenue and other income  386,201  272,657  183,195 
Purchases  258,488  174,912  117,093 
Production and manufacturing expenses 8  25,518  23,822  24,001 
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses 8  12,883  11,328  9,881 
Research and development 8  1,075  815  907 
Exploration 8  1,712  1,423  1,747 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 8  18,529  26,921  52,444 
Interest expense 10  3,181  3,607  4,089 
Total expenditure  321,386  242,828  210,162 
Income/(loss) before taxation  64,815  29,829  (26,967) 
Taxation charge/(credit) 22  21,941  9,199  (5,433) 
Income/(loss) for the period 8  42,874  20,630  (21,534) 
Income attributable to non-controlling interest 8  565  529  146 
Income/(loss) attributable to Shell plc shareholders 8  42,309  20,101  (21,680) 
Basic earnings per share ($) 30  5.76  2.59  (2.78) 
Diluted earnings per share ($) 30  5.71  2.57  (2.78) 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
$ million
Notes 2022 2021 2020
Income/(loss) for the period 8  42,874  20,630  (21,534) 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) net of tax
Items that may be reclassified to income in later periods:
Currency translation differences 28  (2,986)  (1,413)  1,179 
Debt instruments remeasurements 28  (78)  (28)  23 
Cash flow hedging (losses)/gains 28  (232)  21  (160) 
Net investment hedging gains/(losses) 28  180  295  (423) 
Deferred cost of hedging 28  200  (39)  100 
Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of joint ventures and associates 13  274  (109)  (42) 
Total  (2,642)  (1,273)  677 
Items that are not reclassified to income in later periods:
Retirement benefits remeasurements  5,466  7,198  (2,702) 
Equity instruments remeasurements  (491)  145  64 
Share of other comprehensive (loss)/income of joint ventures and associates 13  (253)  3  119 
Total  4,722  7,346  (2,519) 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period  2,080  6,073  (1,842) 
Comprehensive income/(loss) for the period  44,954  26,703  (23,376) 
Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interest  621  468  136 
Comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to Shell plc shareholders  44,333  26,235  (23,512) 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
238 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
238
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
$ million
Notes Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill [A] 11  16,039  14,920 
Other intangible assets [A] 11  9,662  9,773 
Property, plant and equipment 12  198,642  194,932 
Joint ventures and associates 13  23,864  23,415 
Investments in securities 14  3,362  3,797 
Deferred tax 22  7,815  12,426 
Retirement benefits 23  10,200  8,471 
Trade and other receivables 15  6,920  7,065 
Derivative financial instruments 25  582  815 
 277,086  275,614 
Current assets
Inventories 16  31,894  25,258 
Trade and other receivables 15  66,510  53,208 
Derivative financial instruments 25  24,437  11,369 
Cash and cash equivalents 17  40,246  36,970 
 163,087  126,805 
Assets classified as held for sale 18  2,851  1,960 
 165,938  128,765 
Total assets  443,024  404,379 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Debt 20  74,794  80,868 
Trade and other payables 19  3,432  2,075 
Derivative financial instruments 25  3,563  887 
Deferred tax 22  16,186  12,547 
Retirement benefits 23  7,296  11,325 
Decommissioning and other provisions 24  23,845  25,804 
 129,116  133,506 
Current liabilities
Debt 20  9,001  8,218 
Trade and other payables 19  79,357  63,173 
Derivative financial instruments 25  23,779  16,311 
Income taxes payable  4,869  3,254 
Decommissioning and other provisions 24  2,910  3,338 
 119,916  94,294 
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 18  1,395  1,253 
 121,311  95,547 
Total liabilities  250,427  229,053 
Equity
Share capital 26  584  641 
Shares held in trust  (726)  (610) 
Other reserves 28  21,132  18,909 
Retained earnings  169,482  153,026 
Equity attributable to Shell plc shareholders  190,472  171,966 
Non-controlling interest  2,125  3,360 
Total equity  192,597  175,326 
Total liabilities and equity  443,024  404,379 
[A] Goodwill, previously presented under Intangible assets, is separately presented as from 2022. Prior period comparatives have been revised to conform with current year presentation. 
Signed on behalf of the Board
 /s/ Sinead Gorman
Sinead Gorman
Chief Financial Officer
March 8, 2023
Financial Statements and Supplements
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
239 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
239
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
 
$ million
Equity attributable to Shell plc shareholders
Share capital
(see Note 26)
Shares
held in trust
Other
reserves
(see Note 28)
Retained
earnings Total
Non-
controlling
interest
Total
equity
At January 1, 2022  641  (610)  18,909  153,026  171,966  3,360  175,326 
Comprehensive income for the period  —  —  2,024  42,309  44,333  621  44,954 
Transfer from other comprehensive income  —  —  (34)  34  —  —  — 
Dividends (see Note 29) [A]  —  —  —  (7,283)  (7,283)  (206)  (7,489) 
Repurchases of shares [B]  (57)  —  57  (18,547)  (18,547)  —  (18,547) 
Share-based compensation  —  (116)  176  131  191  —  191 
Other changes  —  —  —  (188)  (188)  (1,650) [C]  (1,838) 
At December 31, 2022  584  (726)  21,132  169,482  190,472  2,125  192,597 
At January 1, 2021  651  (709)  12,752  142,616  155,310  3,227  158,537 
Comprehensive income for the period  —  —  6,134  20,101  26,235  468  26,703 
Transfer from other comprehensive income  —  —  (45)  45  —  —  — 
Dividends (see Note 29) [A]  —  —  —  (6,321)  (6,321)  (348)  (6,669) 
Repurchases of shares  (10)  —  10  (3,513)  (3,513)  —  (3,513) 
Share-based compensation  —  99  58  93  250  —  250 
Other changes  —  —  —  5  5  13  18 
December 31, 2021  641  (610)  18,909  153,026  171,966  3,360  175,326 
At January 1, 2020  657  (1,063)  14,451  172,431  186,476  3,987  190,463 
Comprehensive (loss)/income for the period  —  —  (1,832)  (21,397)  (23,229)  136  (23,093) 
Transfer from other comprehensive income  —  —  270  (270)  —  —  — 
Dividends (see Note 29) [A]  —  —  —  (7,270)  (7,270)  (311)  (7,581) 
Repurchases of shares  (6)  —  6  (1,214)  (1,214)  —  (1,214) 
Share-based compensation  —  354  (143)  (230)  (19)  —  (19) 
Other changes  —  —  —  566  566  (585)  (19) 
At December 31, 2020  651  (709)  12,752  142,616  155,310  3,227  158,537 
[A] The amount charged to retained earnings is based on prevailing exchange rates on payment date.
[B] Includes shares committed to repurchase under irrevocable contracts and repurchases subject to settlement at the end of the year. (See Note 26) 
[C] The decrease in the non-controlling interest is mainly attributable to the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in Shell Midstream Partners, L.P.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
240 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
240
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 
$ million
 Notes 2022 2021 2020
Income/(loss) before taxation for the period  64,815  29,829  (26,967) 
Adjustment for:
Interest expense (net)  2,135  3,096  3,316 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  18,529  26,921  52,444 
Exploration well write-offs  12  881  639  815 
Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets and businesses  (642)  (5,995)  (286) 
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates  (3,972)  (4,097)  (1,783) 
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates  4,398  3,929  2,591 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories  (8,360)  (7,319)  4,477 
(Increase)/decrease in current receivables  (8,989)  (20,567)  9,625 
Increase/(decrease) in current payables  11,915  17,519  (9,494) 
Derivative financial instruments  (2,619)  5,882  977 
Retirement benefits  417  16  568 
Decommissioning and other provisions  35  (76)  1,104 
Other  2,991  803  8 
Tax paid  (13,120)  (5,476)  (3,290) 
Cash flow from operating activities  68,414  45,104  34,105 
Capital expenditure  (22,600)  (19,000)  (16,585) 
Investments in joint ventures and associates  (1,973)  (479)  (1,024) 
Investment in equity securities  (260)  (218)  (218) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and businesses  1,431  14,233  2,489 
Proceeds from joint ventures and associates from sale, capital reduction and repayment of long-
term loans  511  584  1,240 
Proceeds from sale of equity securities  117  296  281 
Interest received  906  423  532 
Other investing cash inflows  2,060  2,928  3,239 
Other investing cash outflows  (2,640)  (3,528)  (3,232) 
Cash flow from investing activities  (22,448)  (4,761)  (13,278) 
Net increase/(decrease) in debt with maturity period within three months  318  14  (63) 
Other debt:
New borrowings  269  1,791  23,033 
Repayments  (8,459)  (21,534)  (17,385) 
Interest paid  (3,677)  (4,014)  (4,105) 
Derivative financial instruments  (1,799)  (1,165)  1,157 
Change in non-controlling interest  (1,965)  19  (42) 
Cash dividends paid to:
Shell plc shareholders [A]  (7,405)  (6,253)  (7,424) 
Non-controlling interest  (206)  (348)  (311) 
Repurchases of shares  (18,437)  (2,889)  (1,702) 
Shares held in trust: net purchases and dividends received  (593)  (285)  (382) 
Cash flow from financing activities  (41,954)  (34,664)  (7,224) 
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  (736)  (539)  172 
Increase in cash and cash equivalents  3,276  5,140  13,775 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  36,970  31,830  18,055 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  17  40,246  36,970  31,830 
[A] Cash dividends  paid represents the payment of net dividends (after deduction of withholding taxes where applicable) and payment of withholding taxes on dividends paid in the previous 
quarter. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Consolidated Financial Statements continued
241 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
241
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
1. Basis of preparation
The Consolidated Financial Statements of Shell plc (the "Company") and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as "Shell") have been prepared 
in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards and with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 as applicable to 
companies reporting under those standards. As applied to Shell, there are no material differences from International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB); therefore, the Consolidated Financial Statements have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. 
As described in the accounting policies in Note 2, the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention 
except for certain items measured at fair value. Those accounting policies have been applied consistently in all periods. 
The Consolidated Financial Statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on March 8, 2023.
Going concern
These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis of accounting. In assessing the appropriateness of the 
going concern assumption over the period to March 31, 2024 (the "going concern period"), management have stress-tested Shell’s most recent 
financial projections to incorporate a range of potential future outcomes by considering Shell’s principal risks, potential downside pressures on 
commodity prices and cash preservation measures, including reduced future operating costs, capital expenditure and shareholder distributions. 
Management’s stress test included scenarios and risks covering: unplanned shutdown at a major cash-generating asset; a lower oil and gas price 
environment; a significant health, safety, security and environment event; and global macro uncertainties. The going concern assessment confirmed 
that Shell has adequate cash, other liquid resources and undrawn credit facilities to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due in order to 
continue its operations during the going concern period. Therefore, the Directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements.
2. Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates
This Note describes Shell’s significant accounting policies, which are those relevant to an understanding of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
It includes the measurement bases used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. It allows for an understanding as to how transactions, 
other events and conditions are reported. It also describes: (a) judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that management makes 
in applying the policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements; and (b) 
estimations, including assumptions about the future, that management makes in applying the policies. The sources of estimation uncertainty 
that have a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are 
specifically identified as a significant estimate. 
The accounting policies applied are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the adoption as from January 1, 2022, of 
amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment (IAS 16) and IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets (IAS 37).
The transition to the accounting pronouncements as listed below has no material impact.
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment: Proceeds before Intended Use
The amendments to IAS 16 prohibit deducting from the cost of an item of property, plant and equipment under construction any proceeds and 
related costs from selling items produced while bringing these types of assets to the location and condition necessary for them to be capable 
of operating in the manner intended by management. Instead, the proceeds and related costs are recognised in the Consolidated Statement 
of Income in accordance with applicable accounting policies. 
Prior to these IAS 16 amendments Shell's policy was to deduct any proceeds and related costs from selling items produced against property, 
plant and equipment under construction.
IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets: Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a Contract
The amendments to IAS 37 provide additional clarity on which costs an entity includes when assessing whether a contract is onerous. 
The amendments specify that the cost of fulfilling a contract comprises the costs that relate directly to the contract. Those costs include 
both incremental costs and an allocation of other costs, as long as these relate directly to fulfilling a contract. 
Nature of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in US dollars (dollars) and comprise the financial statements of the Company and its 
subsidiaries, being those entities over which the Company has control, either directly or indirectly, through exposure or rights to their variable 
returns and the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entities. Information about subsidiaries at December 31, 2022, can 
be found in Appendix 1: Significant Subsidiaries and Other Related Undertakings. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained until the date that such control ceases, using consistent accounting 
policies. All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from such transactions, are eliminated. Unrealised losses 
are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Non-controlling interest represents the 
proportion of income, other comprehensive income and net assets in subsidiaries that are not attributable to the Company’s shareholders.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
242 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
242
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

2. Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Currency translation 
Foreign currency transactions are translated using the exchange rate at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at quarter-end exchange rates of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies (including those in respect of inter-company balances, unless related to loans 
of a long-term investment nature) are recognised in income unless when recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of cash flow or net 
investment hedges. Foreign exchange gains and losses in income are presented within interest and other income or within purchases where not 
related to financing. Share capital issued in currencies other than the dollar is translated at the exchange rate at the date of issue. 
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of non-dollar entities are translated to dollars at year-end rates of exchange, while their statements of 
income, other comprehensive income and cash flows are translated at quarterly average rates. The resulting translation differences are recognised 
as currency translation differences within other comprehensive income. Upon sale of all or part of an interest in, or upon liquidation of, an entity, 
the appropriate portion of cumulative currency translation differences related to that entity is generally recognised in income. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue from sales of oil, natural gas, chemicals and other products is recognised at the transaction price to which Shell expects to be entitled, 
after deducting sales taxes, excise duties and similar levies. For contracts that contain separate performance obligations, the transaction price is 
allocated to those separate performance obligations by reference to their relative stand-alone selling prices. 
Revenue is recognised when control of the products has been transferred to the customer. For sales by Integrated Gas and Upstream operations, 
this generally occurs when the product is physically transferred into a vessel, pipe or other delivery mechanism; for sales by refining operations, it is 
either when the product is placed onboard a vessel or offloaded from the vessel, depending on the contractually agreed terms; and for sales of oil 
products and chemicals, it is either at the point of delivery or the point of receipt, depending on contractual conditions. 
Revenue resulting from hydrocarbon production from properties in which Shell has an interest with partners in joint arrangements is recognised on 
the basis of Shell’s volumes lifted and sold. Revenue resulting from the production of oil and natural gas under production-sharing contracts (PSCs) 
is recognised for those amounts relating to Shell’s cost recoveries and Shell’s share of the remaining production. Gains and losses on derivative 
contracts and the revenue and costs associated with other contracts that are classified as held primarily for the purpose of being traded are 
reported on a net basis in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Purchases and sales of hydrocarbons under exchange contracts that are 
necessary to obtain or reposition feedstocks for the refinery operations are presented net in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
Revenue resulting from arrangements that are not considered contracts with customers is presented as revenue from other sources.
Research and development 
Development costs that are expected to generate probable future economic benefits are capitalised as intangible assets. All other research and 
development expenditure is recognised in income as incurred.
Exploration costs 
Hydrocarbon exploration costs are accounted for under the successful efforts method: exploration costs are recognised in income when incurred, 
except that exploratory drilling costs, including in respect of the recapitalisation of the depreciation, are included in property, plant and equipment 
pending determination of proved reserves. Exploration costs capitalised in respect of exploration wells that are more than 12 months old are 
written off unless: (a) proved reserves are booked; or (b) (i) they have found commercially producible quantities of reserves; and (ii) they are 
subject to further exploration or appraisal activity in that either drilling of additional exploratory wells is under way or firmly planned for the near 
future or other activities are being undertaken to sufficiently progress the assessing of reserves and the economic and operating viability of the 
project. 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill
Recognition
Property, plant and equipment comprise assets owned by Shell, assets held by Shell under lease contracts, and assets operated by Shell as 
contractor in PSCs. They include rights and concessions in respect of properties with proved reserves ("proved properties") and with no proved 
reserves ("unproved properties"). Property, plant and equipment, including expenditure on major inspections, and intangible assets are initially 
recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost where it is probable that they will generate future economic benefits. This includes 
capitalisation of decommissioning and restoration costs associated with provisions for asset retirement (see "provisions"), certain development 
costs (see "research and development") and the effects of associated cash flow hedges (see "financial instruments") as applicable. Interest is 
capitalised as an increase in property, plant and equipment, on major capital projects during construction. The accounting for exploration costs 
is described separately (see "exploration costs"). Intangible assets other than goodwill include liquefied natural gas (LNG) off-take and sales 
contracts, environmental certificates, power purchase agreements, software costs, retail customer relationships and trademarks. 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill are subsequently carried at cost less accumulated depreciation, 
depletion and amortisation (including any impairment). Gains and losses on sale are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying 
amounts of assets sold and are recognised in income, within interest and other income. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
243 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
243
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

2. Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
An asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, which is 
when the sale is highly probable, and it is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary 
for sales of such assets. Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount upon classification and the fair value 
less costs to sell. Assets classified as held for sale and the associated liabilities are presented separately from other assets and liabilities in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Once assets are classified as held for sale, property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than 
goodwill are no longer subject to depreciation or amortisation.
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation
Property, plant and equipment related to hydrocarbon production activities are in principle depreciated on a unit-of-production basis over the 
proved developed reserves of the field concerned, other than assets whose useful lives differ from the lifetime of the field which are depreciated 
applying the straight-line method. However, for certain Integrated Gas and Upstream assets, the use for this purpose of proved developed 
reserves, which are determined using the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) mandated yearly average oil and gas prices, would result in 
depreciation charges for these assets which do not reflect the pattern in which their future economic benefits are expected to be consumed as, for 
example, it may result in assets with long-term expected lives having accelerated or being fully depreciated within one year. Therefore, in these 
instances, other approaches are applied to determine a reserves base for the purpose of calculating depreciation, such as using management’s 
expectations of future oil and gas prices rather than yearly average prices and using total proved reserves to provide a phasing of periodic 
depreciation charges that more appropriately reflects the expected utilisation of the assets concerned. (See Note 12)
Rights and concessions in respect of proved properties are depleted on the unit-of-production basis over the total proved reserves of the relevant 
area. Where individually insignificant, unproved properties may be grouped and depreciated based on factors such as the average concession 
term and past experience of recognising proved reserves.
Property, plant and equipment held under lease contracts, capitalised LNG off-take and sales contracts and power purchase agreements are 
depreciated or amortised over the term of the respective contract. Other property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill 
are depreciated or amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. They include energy and chemicals parks (for which the 
useful life is generally 20 years), retail service stations (for which the useful life is generally 15 years), onshore power infrastructure (for which the 
useful life is generally 30-35 years), offshore wind assets (for which the useful life is generally 25-30 years) and major inspection costs, which are 
depreciated over the estimated period before the next planned major inspection (three to five years).
On classification of an asset as held for sale, depreciation ceases. 
Estimates of the useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill are reviewed annually 
and adjusted if appropriate.
Impairment
Intangible assets other than goodwill and assets other than unproved properties (see "Exploration costs") are tested for impairment whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts for those assets may not be recoverable. If any such indication of 
impairment exists, the carrying amounts of those assets are written down to their recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less
costs of disposal (see "Fair value measurements") and value in use.
Value in use is determined as the amount of estimated risk-adjusted discounted future cash flows. For this purpose, assets are grouped into cash-
generating units based on separately identifiable and largely independent cash inflows. Estimates of future cash flows used in the evaluation of 
impairment of assets are made using management’s forecasts of commodity prices, market supply and demand, potential costs associated with 
operational greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, mainly related to CO₂, and forecast product and refining margins. In addition, management takes 
into consideration the expected useful lives of the manufacturing facilities, exploration and production assets, and expected production volumes. 
The latter takes into account assessments of field and reservoir performance and includes expectations about both proved reserves and volumes 
that are expected to constitute proved reserves in the future (unproved volumes), which are risk-weighted utilising geological, production, recovery 
and economic projections. Cash flow projections are based on management’s most recent operating plan that represents management's best 
estimate and are risked as appropriate. The discount rate is based on a nominal post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC). Prior to 2021, 
cash flow estimates were discounted at a rate based on Shell's marginal cost of debt. The change in discount rate to a nominal post-tax WACC 
has been reflected in a commensurate manner in the risk adjustments to cash flow projections. Using a post-tax discount rate to calculate value 
in use does not result in a materially different outcome than using a pre-tax discount rate. (See Note 12)
Impairments are reversed as applicable to the extent that the events or circumstances that triggered the original impairment have changed.
Impairment losses and reversals are reported within depreciation, depletion and amortisation.
Upon classification of an asset as held for sale, the carrying amount is impaired if this exceeds the fair value less costs to sell.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
244 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
244
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

2. Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Judgements and estimates
Proved oil and gas reserves
Unit-of-production depreciation, depletion and amortisation charges are principally measured based on management’s estimates of proved 
developed oil and gas reserves. Also, exploration drilling costs are capitalised pending the results of further exploration or appraisal activity 
(successful efforts method), which may take place for several years before the final investment decision on a development project is taken and 
before any related proved reserves can be booked. 
Proved reserves are estimated by internal qualified professionals. The proved reserves are estimated with reasonable certainty by analysis of 
available geological and engineering data at the time of the estimation, and only include volumes for which access to market is assured with 
reasonable expectation. Yearly average oil and gas prices are used for the estimation of proved reserves unless prices are defined by 
contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. Proved reserves are subject to regular revision, both upward 
or downward, based on new information from the drilling of additional wells, observation of long-term reservoir performance under producing 
conditions, updates of development plans and changes in economic factors, including product prices, contract terms, legislation or 
development plans.
Changes to estimates of proved developed reserves affect prospectively the amounts of depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged 
and, consequently, the carrying amounts of exploration and production assets. Generally, in the normal course of business the diversity of the 
asset portfolio will limit the net effect of such revisions. The outcome of, or assessment of plans for, exploration or appraisal activity may result 
in the related capitalised exploration drilling costs being recognised in income in that period. 
Judgement is involved in determining when to use an alternative reserves base in order to appropriately reflect the expected utilisation of the 
assets concerned (see "Depreciation, depletion and amortisation"). 
Information about the carrying amounts of exploration and production assets and the amounts charged to income, including depreciation, 
depletion and amortisation and the quantitative impact of the use of an alternative reserves base, is presented in Note 12. 
Impairment 
For the purposes of determining whether impairment of assets has occurred, and the extent of any impairment loss or its reversal, the key 
assumptions management uses in estimating risk-adjusted future cash flows for value in use measures are future oil and gas prices and refining 
margins. In addition, management uses other assumptions such as potential costs associated with operational GHG emissions and expected 
production volumes appropriate to the local circumstances and environment. These assumptions and the judgements of management that are 
based on them are subject to change as new information becomes available. Changes in assumptions could affect the carrying amounts of 
assets, and any impairment losses and reversals will affect income. Changes in economic conditions can affect the rate used to discount future 
cash flow estimates or the risk adjustment in the future cash flows. Judgement is applied to conclude whether changes in assumptions or 
economic conditions are an indicator that an asset may be impaired or that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no longer 
exist, or may have decreased. 
Expected production volumes, which comprise proved reserves and unproved volumes, are used for impairment testing because management 
believes this to be the most appropriate indicator of expected future cash flows. Reserves estimates are inherently imprecise. Furthermore, 
projections about unproved volumes are based on information that is necessarily less robust than that available for mature reservoirs. 
Estimation is involved with respect to the expected life of energy and chemicals parks, including management’s view on the future 
development of refining margins. 
The determination of cash-generating units requires judgement. Changes in this determination could impact the calculation of value in use 
and therefore the conclusion on the recoverability of assets’ carrying amounts when performing an impairment test. 
Judgement, which is subject to change as new information becomes available, can be required in determining when an asset is classified 
as held for sale. A change in that judgement could result in impairment charges affecting income, depending on whether classification 
requires a write-down of the asset to its fair value less costs to sell. 
In assessing the value in use, the estimated risk-adjusted future post-tax cash flows are discounted to their present value using a post-tax 
discount rate that reflects Shell’s post-tax WACC. The discount rate applied does not reflect asset-specific risks for which future cash flow 
estimates have been adjusted. 
Significant estimates 
Assumptions about future commodity prices and refining margins used in the impairment testing in, respectively, Integrated Gas and 
Upstream and Chemicals and Products (see Note 12) are regularly assessed by management, noting that management does not necessarily 
consider short-term increases or decreases in prices as being indicative of long-term levels. 
The price methodology applied is based on Shell management’s understanding and interpretation of demand and supply fundamentals in 
the near term, taking into account various other factors such as industry rationalisation and energy transition in the long term.
Future commodity prices and refining margins used in impairment testing provide a source of estimation uncertainty as referred to 
in paragraph 125 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (IAS 1.125).
Information about the carrying amounts of assets and impairments and their sensitivity to changes in significant estimates is presented 
in Notes 11 and 12. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
245 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
245
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

2. Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Goodwill
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for any non-controlling 
interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination at the acquisition date. The amount 
recognised for any non-controlling interest is measured as a percentage of the identified net assets of the acquiree based on the present 
ownership's proportionate share. At the acquisition date, acquired goodwill is allocated to each cash-generating unit (CGU), or groups of CGUs, 
expected to benefit from the combination's synergies. The CGU to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level at which the goodwill 
will be monitored and managed. 
Goodwill is not amortised and is subsequently measured at the initial amount recognised less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Impairment 
The carrying amount of goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable 
amount of each CGU to which the goodwill relates. An impairment loss is recognised when the CGU's recoverable amount is lower than its 
carrying amount.
Previously recognised impairment losses of goodwill are not reversed subsequently.
Leases
A contract, or part of a contract, that conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for payments to 
be made to the owners (lessors) is accounted for as a lease. Contracts are assessed to determine whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at the 
inception of a contract or when the terms and conditions of a contract are significantly changed. The lease term is the non-cancellable period of a 
lease, together with contractual options to extend or to terminate the lease early, where it is reasonably certain that an extension option will be 
exercised or a termination option will not be exercised.
At the commencement of a lease contract, a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability are recognised, unless the lease term is 12 
months or less. The commencement date of a lease is the date on which the underlying asset is made available for use. The lease liability is 
measured at an amount equal to the present value of the lease payments during the lease term that are not paid at that date. The lease liability 
includes contingent rentals and variable lease payments that depend on an index, rate, or where they are fixed payments in substance. The lease 
liability is remeasured when the contractual cash flows of variable lease payments change due to a change in an index or rate when the lease 
term changes following a reassessment.
Lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate is not readily available, the incremental borrowing rate 
is applied. The incremental borrowing rate reflects the rate of interest that the lessee would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, with a 
similar security, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar nature and value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment.
In general, a corresponding right-of-use asset is recognised for an amount equal to each lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any pre-paid 
lease payment relating to the specific lease contract. The depreciation on right-of-use assets is recognised in income unless capitalised as 
exploration drilling cost (see "exploration cost") or capitalised when the right-of-use asset is used to construct another asset.
Where Shell is the lessor in a lease arrangement at inception, the lease arrangement will be classified as a finance lease or an operating lease. 
Classification is based on the extent to which the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset lie with the lessor or the lessee.
Where Shell, usually in its capacity as operator, has entered into a lease contract on behalf of a joint arrangement, a lease liability is recognised 
to the extent that Shell has primary responsibility for the lease liability. A finance sublease is subsequently recognised if the related right-of-use 
asset is subleased to the joint arrangement. This is usually the case when the joint arrangement has the right to direct the use and obtains 
substantially all of the economic benefits from using the asset.
Impairment of the right-of-use asset
Right-of-use assets are subject to existing impairment requirements as set out in "Property, plant and equipment", above, and as presented
in Note 12.
Judgements and estimates 
A lease term includes optional lease periods where it is reasonably certain Shell will exercise the option to extend or not exercise the option 
to terminate the lease. Determination of the lease term is subject to judgement and has an impact on the measurement of the lease liability 
and related right-of-use asset. When assessing the lease term at the commencement date, Shell takes into consideration the broader 
economics of the contract. Reassessment of the lease term is performed upon changes in circumstances that may affect the probability that 
an option to extend or to terminate the lease will be exercised.
Where the rate implicit in the lease is not readily available, an incremental borrowing rate is applied. This incremental borrowing rate reflects 
the rate of interest that the lessee would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, with a similar security, the funds necessary to obtain an 
asset of a similar nature and value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment. Determination of the incremental borrowing 
rate requires estimation. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
246 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
246
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

2. Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Joint arrangements and associates 
Arrangements under which Shell has contractually agreed to share control (see "Nature of the Consolidated Financial Statements" for the 
definition of control) with another party or parties are joint ventures where the parties have rights to the net assets of the arrangement, or 
joint operations where the parties have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement. Investments in 
entities over which Shell has the right to exercise significant influence but neither control nor joint control are classified as associates. 
Information about incorporated joint arrangements and associates at December 31, 2022, can be found in Appendix 1: Significant 
Subsidiaries and Other Related Undertakings.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method, under which the investment is initially recognised at 
cost and subsequently adjusted for the Shell share of post-acquisition income less dividends received and the Shell share of other comprehensive 
income and other movements in equity, together with any loans of a long-term investment nature. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the 
financial statements of joint ventures and associates to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of Shell. In an exchange of assets 
and liabilities for an interest in a joint venture, the non-Shell share of any excess of the fair value of the assets and liabilities transferred over 
the pre-exchange carrying amounts is recognised in income. Unrealised gains on other transactions between Shell and its joint ventures and 
associates are eliminated to the extent of Shell’s interest in them; unrealised losses are treated similarly but may also result in an assessment 
of whether the asset transferred is impaired. 
Shell recognises its assets and liabilities relating to its interests in joint operations, including its share of assets held jointly and liabilities incurred 
jointly with other partners. 
Inventories
Inventories are stated at cost or net realisable value, whichever is lower. Cost comprises direct purchase costs (including transportation), 
and associated costs incurred in bringing inventories to their present condition and location, and is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) 
method for oil, gas and chemicals and by the weighted average cost method for materials. 
Taxation
The charge for current tax is calculated based on the income reported by the Company and its subsidiaries, as adjusted for items that are
non-taxable or disallowed and using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is determined, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and on unused tax losses and credits carried forward. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the enacted or substantively enacted rates that are expected to apply when an asset 
is realised or a liability is settled. They are not recognised where they arise on the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a 
transaction (other than in a business combination) that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, or in respect 
of taxable temporary differences associated with subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates where the reversal of the respective temporary 
difference can be controlled by Shell and it is probable that it will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, unused tax losses and credits carried forward can be utilised. 
Income tax receivables and payables as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities include provisions for uncertain income tax positions/treatments. 
Income taxes are recognised in income except when they relate to items recognised in other comprehensive income, in which case the tax is 
recognised in other comprehensive income. Income tax assets and liabilities are presented separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet except 
where there is a right of offset within fiscal jurisdictions and an intention to settle such balances on a net basis.
Judgements and estimates 
Tax liabilities are recognised when it is considered probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a taxing authority. In such 
cases, provision is made for the amount that is expected to be settled, where this can be reasonably estimated. Provisions for uncertain 
income tax positions/treatments are measured at the most likely amount or the expected value, whichever method is more appropriate. 
Generally, uncertain tax treatments are assessed on an individual basis, except where they are expected to be settled collectively. It is 
assumed that taxing authorities will examine positions taken if they have the right to do so and that they have full knowledge of the 
relevant information. A change in estimate of the likelihood of a future outflow and/or in the expected amount to be settled would be 
recognised in income in the period in which the change occurs. This requires the application of judgement as to the ultimate outcome, 
which can change over time depending on facts and circumstances. Judgements mainly relate to transfer pricing, including inter-company 
financing, interpretation of PSCs, expenditure deductible for tax purposes and taxation arising on disposal. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
247 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
247
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

2. Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Judgements and estimates continued 
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is considered probable that those assets will be recoverable. This involves an 
assessment of when those assets are likely to reverse, and a judgement as to whether or not there will be sufficient taxable profits available 
to offset the assets when they do reverse. This requires assumptions regarding future profitability and is therefore inherently uncertain. To 
the extent assumptions regarding future profitability change, there can be an increase or decrease in the amounts recognised in respect of 
deferred tax assets as well as in the amounts recognised in income in the period in which the change occurs. 
Taxation information, including charges and deferred tax assets and liabilities, is presented in Note 22. Income taxes include taxes at higher 
rates levied on income from certain Integrated Gas and Upstream activities. 
Retirement benefits 
Benefits in the form of retirement pensions and health care and life insurance are provided to certain employees and retirees under defined benefit 
and defined contribution plans.
Obligations under defined benefit plans are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method, which takes into 
account employees’ years of service and, for pensions, average or final pensionable remuneration, and are discounted to their present value using 
interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and of a duration consistent with the 
plan obligations. Where plans are funded, payments are made to independently managed trusts; assets held by those trusts are measured at fair 
value. Defined benefit plan surpluses are recognised as assets to the extent that they are considered recoverable, which is generally by way of 
a refund or lower future employer contributions.
The amounts recognised in income in respect of defined benefit plans mainly comprise service cost and net interest. Service cost comprises 
principally the increase in the present value of the obligation for benefits resulting from employee service during the period (current service cost) 
and also amounts relating to past service and settlements or amendments of plans. Plan amendments are changes to benefits and are generally 
recognised when all legal and regulatory approvals have been received and the effects have been communicated to members. Net interest is 
calculated using the net defined benefit liability or asset matched against the discount rate yield curve at the beginning of each year for each 
plan. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability or asset resulting from actuarial gains and losses, and the return on plan assets excluding 
the amount recognised in income, are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
For defined contribution plans, pension expense represents the amount of employer contributions payable for the period. 
Significant judgements and estimates 
Defined benefit obligations and plan assets, and the resulting liabilities and assets that are recognised, require significant estimation as these 
are subject to volatility as (actuarial) assumptions regarding future outcomes and market values change. Substantial judgement is required in 
determining the actuarial assumptions, which vary for the different plans to reflect local conditions but are determined under a common 
process in consultation with independent actuaries. The assumptions applied in respect of each plan are reviewed annually and adjusted 
where necessary to reflect changes in experience and actuarial recommendations. 
Actuarial assumptions applied in determining defined benefit obligations provide a source of estimation uncertainty as referred to in IAS 
1.125.
Information about the amounts reported in respect of defined benefit pension plans, assumptions applicable to the principal plans and their 
sensitivity to changes in significant estimates is presented in Note 23. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised at the balance sheet date at management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation. 
Non-current amounts are discounted at a rate intended to reflect the time value of money. The carrying amounts of provisions and the discount 
rate applied are regularly reviewed and adjusted for new facts or changes in law, technology or financial markets.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
248 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
248
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

2. Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Provisions for decommissioning and restoration costs, which arise principally in connection with hydrocarbon production facilities, oil products 
manufacturing facilities and pipelines, are measured on the basis of current requirements, technology and price levels; the present value is 
calculated using amounts discounted over the useful economic life of the assets. The liability is recognised (together with a corresponding amount 
as part of the related property, plant and equipment) once a legal or constructive obligation arises to dismantle an item of property, plant and 
equipment and to restore the site on which it is located and when a reasonable estimate can be made. The effects of changes resulting from 
revisions to the timing or the amount of the original estimate of the provision are reflected on a prospective basis, generally by adjustment to the 
carrying amount of the related property, plant and equipment. However, where there is no related asset, or the change reduces the carrying 
amount to nil, the effect, or the amount in excess of the reduction in the related asset to nil, is recognised in income. 
Shell reviews its energy and chemicals parks on a regular basis to determine whether any changes in assumptions, including expected life, 
trigger the need to recognise a provision for decommissioning and restoration.
Redundancy provisions are recognised when a detailed formal plan identifies the business or part of the business concerned, the location and 
number of employees affected, a detailed estimate of the associated costs and an appropriate timeline, and the employees affected have been 
notified of the plan's main features. 
An onerous contract provision is recognised when the unavoidable cost of meeting the obligations under the contract exceeds the economic 
benefits expected to be received under it. The unavoidable cost under a contract is the lower of the cost of fulfilling the contract and any 
compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil it. The cost of fulfilling a contract comprises the costs that relate directly to the contract. 
Before an onerous provision is recognised Shell first recognises any impairment loss that has occurred on assets dedicated to that contract.
Other provisions are recognised in income in the period in which an obligation arises and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Provisions are 
measured based on current legal requirements and existing technology where applicable. Recognition of any joint and several liability is based on 
management’s best estimate of the final pro rata share of the liability. Provisions are determined independently of expected insurance recoveries. 
Recoveries are recognised when virtually certain of realisation. 
Estimates 
Estimates of provisions for future decommissioning and restoration costs are recognised and based on current legal and constructive 
requirements, technology and price levels. Because actual cash outflows can differ from estimates due to changes in laws, regulations, 
public expectations, technology, prices and conditions, and can take place many years in the future, the carrying amounts of provisions 
are regularly reviewed and adjusted to take account of such changes. 
Significant estimate
The discount rate applied to reflect the time value of money in the carrying amount of provisions requires estimation. The discount rate used in 
the calculation of provisions is the pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money. Generally, the market 
assessments of the time value of money can be reflected in the risk-free rate and given the long-term investment nature of oil and gas business, 
Shell considers it appropriate to use the 20-year US Treasury bond yield return as the risk-free rate. The discount rate applied is reviewed 
regularly and adjusted following changes in market rates. 
The discount rate applied to determine the carrying amount of provisions provides a source of estimation uncertainty as referred to in IAS 
1.125.
Information about decommissioning and restoration provisions and their sensitivity to changes in estimates is presented in Note 24. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are presented separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet except where there is a legally enforceable right 
of offset and Shell has the intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
Financial assets
Financial assets are classified at initial recognition and subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income 
or fair value through profit or loss. The classification of financial assets is determined by the contractual cash flows and where applicable the 
business model for managing the financial assets. 
Debt instruments are measured at amortised cost, if the objective of the business model is to hold the financial asset in order to collect contractual 
cash flows and the contractual terms give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest. It is initially recognised at fair value 
plus or minus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset. Subsequently, the financial asset is 
measured using the effective interest method less any impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, 
modified or impaired. 
All equity instruments and other debt instruments are recognised at fair value. For equity instruments, on initial recognition, an irrevocable election 
(on an instrument-by-instrument basis) can be made to designate these as at fair value through other comprehensive income instead of fair value 
through profit or loss. Dividends received on equity instruments are recognised as other income in profit or loss when the right of payment has 
been established, except when Shell benefits from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case such gains 
are recorded in other comprehensive income.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
249 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
249
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

2. Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Investments in securities
Investments in securities ("securities") comprise equity and debt securities. Equity securities are carried at fair value. Generally, unrealised holding 
gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income. On sale, net gains and losses previously accumulated in other comprehensive 
income are transferred to retained earnings. Debt securities are generally carried at fair value with unrealised holding gains and losses recognised 
in other comprehensive income. On sale, net gains and losses previously accumulated in other comprehensive income are recognised in income.
Impairment of financial assets
The expected credit loss model is applied for recognition and measurement of impairments in financial assets measured at amortised cost or at 
fair value through other comprehensive income. The expected credit loss model is also applied for financial guarantee contracts to which IFRS 9 
applies and which are not accounted for at fair value through profit or loss. The loss allowance for the financial asset is measured at an amount 
equal to the 12-month expected credit losses. If the credit risk on the financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition, the loss 
allowance for the financial asset is measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses. Changes in loss allowances are recognised 
in profit or loss. For trade receivables, a simplified impairment approach is applied recognising expected lifetime losses from initial recognition. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, including offsetting bank overdrafts, short-term bank deposits, money market funds, 
reverse repos and similar instruments that generally have a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase. 
Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, unless they are required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss, such as instruments 
held for trading, or Shell has opted to measure them at fair value through profit or loss. Debt and trade payables are recognised initially at fair 
value based on amounts exchanged, net of transaction costs, and subsequently at amortised cost except for fixed rate debt subject to fair value 
hedging which is remeasured for the hedged risk (see below). Interest expense on debt is accounted for using the effective interest method, and 
other than interest capitalised, is recognised in income. For financial liabilities that are measured under the fair value option, the change in the fair 
value related to own credit risk is recognised in other comprehensive income. The remaining fair value change is recognised at fair value through 
profit or loss.
Derivative contracts and hedges 
Derivative contracts are used in the management of interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk, and foreign currency 
cash balances. Derivatives that are not closely related to the host contract in terms of economic characteristics and risks and the host contract of 
which is not a financial asset are separated from their host contract and recognised at fair value with the associated gains and losses recognised 
in income.
Contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash are accounted for as financial instruments, with the exception of those 
contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with 
Shell’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not designated 
as effective hedging instruments are recognised in income.
Certain derivative contracts qualify and are designated either: as a fair value hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised asset or liability 
or an unrecognised firm commitment; or as a cash flow hedge for the change in cash flows to be received or paid relating to a recognised asset 
or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction; or as a net investment hedge of the change in foreign exchange rates associated with net 
investments in foreign operations with a different functional currency than Shell’s functional currency.
A change in the fair value of a hedging instrument designated as a fair value hedge is recognised in income, together with the consequential 
adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item. The effective portion of a change in fair value of a derivative contract designated as a 
cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income until the hedged transaction occurs; any ineffective portion is recognised in income. 
Where the hedged item is a non-financial asset or liability, the amount in accumulated other comprehensive income is transferred to the initial 
carrying amount of the asset or liability (reclassified to the balance sheet); a net investment hedge is accounted for similarly to a cash flow hedge. 
Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income while any 
gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in the income statements. On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative 
value of any such gains or losses recorded in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement.
The effective portion of a change due to retranslation at quarter-end exchange rates in the carrying amount of debt and the principal amount of 
derivative contracts used to hedge net investments in foreign operations is recognised in other comprehensive income until the related investment 
is sold or liquidated; any ineffective portion is recognised in income.
All relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items are documented, as well as risk management objectives and strategies for 
undertaking hedge transactions. The effectiveness of hedges is also continually assessed and hedge accounting is discontinued when there is 
a change in the risk management strategy.
Unless designated as hedging instruments, contracts to sell or purchase non-financial items that can be settled net as if the contracts were financial 
instruments and that do not meet expected own-use requirements (typically, forward sale and purchase contracts for commodities in trading 
operations), and contracts that are or contain written options, are recognised at fair value; associated gains and losses are recognised in income.
Derivatives that are held primarily for the purpose of trading are presented as current in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
250 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
250
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

2. Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Judgement
Judgement is required to determine whether contracts to buy or sell LNG are capable of being settled on a net basis. Due to the limited 
liquidity in the LNG market and the lack of net settlement history, contracts to buy or sell LNG are not considered capable of being settled 
on a net basis. As a result, these contracts are accounted for on an accrual basis and not as a financial instrument. 
Fair value measurements
Fair value measurements are estimates of the amounts for which assets or liabilities could be transferred at the measurement date, based on 
the assumption that such transfers take place between participants in principal markets and, where applicable, taking highest and best use 
into account.
Estimate 
Where available, fair value measurements are derived from prices quoted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. In the absence of 
such information, other observable inputs are used to estimate fair value. Inputs derived from external sources are corroborated or otherwise 
verified, as appropriate. In the absence of publicly available information, fair value is determined using estimation techniques that take into 
account market perspectives relevant to the asset or liability, in as far as they can reasonably be ascertained, based on predominantly 
unobservable inputs. For derivative contracts where publicly available information is not available, fair value estimations are generally 
determined using models and other valuation methods, the key inputs for which include future prices, volatility, price correlation, counterparty 
credit risk and market liquidity, as appropriate; for other assets and liabilities, fair value estimations are generally based on the net present 
value of expected future cash flows. 
Share-based compensation plans
The fair value of share-based compensation expense arising from the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) - 
Shell’s main equity-settled plans - is estimated using the average Monte Carlo fair values and is recognised in income from the date of grant over 
the vesting period with a corresponding increase directly in equity. The model projects and averages the results for a range of potential outcomes 
for the vesting conditions, the principal assumptions for which are the share price volatility and dividend yields for Shell and four of its main 
competitors using respectively three years and 10 years of historical data.
Shares held in trust
Shares in the Company, which are held by employee share ownership trusts and trust-like entities, are not included in assets but are reflected 
at cost as a deduction from equity as shares held in trust.
Acquisitions and sales of interests in a business 
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed when control is obtained over a business, and when an interest or an additional interest is acquired in 
a joint operation which is a business, are recognised at their fair value at the date of the acquisition; the amount of the purchase consideration 
above this value is recognised as goodwill. When control is obtained, any non-controlling interest is recognised as the proportionate share of the 
identifiable net assets. The acquisition of a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary and the sale of an interest while retaining control are accounted 
for as transactions within equity. The difference between the purchase consideration or sale proceeds after tax and the relevant proportion of the 
non-controlling interest, measured by reference to the carrying amount of the interest’s net assets at the date of acquisition or sale, is recognised 
in retained earnings as a movement in equity attributable to Shell plc shareholders. 
Emission schemes and related environmental programmes
Emission certificates, biofuel certificates and renewable power certificates (together "environmental certificates") held for trading purposes are 
recognised at cost or net realisable value, whichever is lower, and classified under inventory.
Emission trading schemes
Emission certificates acquired for compliance purposes are initially recognised at cost and classified under intangible assets. In the schemes 
where a cap is set for emissions, the associated emission certificates granted are recognised at cost, which may be zero. An emission liability 
is recognised under other liabilities when actual emissions occur that give rise to an obligation. To the extent the liability is covered by emission 
certificates held for compliance purposes, the liability is measured with reference to the value of these emission certificates held and for the 
remaining uncovered portion at market value. The associated expense is presented under "Production and manufacturing expenses". Both 
the emission certificates and the emission liability are derecognised upon settling the liability with the respective regulator.
Biofuel programmes
Biofuel certificates acquired that are held for compliance purposes are initially recognised at cost under intangible assets. Self-generated biofuel 
certificates are recognised at nil value, as they primarily offset the obligation. A biofuel liability is recognised under other liabilities when the 
obligation arises under local regulations. To the extent covered by biofuel certificates held for compliance purposes, the liability is measured with 
reference to the value of these certificates held and for the remaining uncovered portion at market value. The associated expense is presented 
under "purchases". Biofuel certificates and the biofuel liability are both derecognised upon settling the liability with the respective regulator.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
251 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
251
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

2. Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued
Renewable power programmes
Renewable power certificates acquired for compliance purposes are initially recognised at cost as an intangible asset. Self-generated renewable 
power certificates are generally transferred to the customer upon sales of electricity. A renewable power liability is recognised under other 
liabilities when electricity sales take place that give rise to an obligation to retire renewable power certificates. The associated cost is recognised 
in "purchases" in the income statement. If the obligation relates to power consumed in business operations, it is presented in other liabilities with 
cost reflected in "Production and manufacturing expenses". To the extent covered by renewable power certificates held for compliance purposes, 
the liability is measured with reference to the value of these renewable power certificates and for the remaining uncovered portion at market 
value. Renewable power certificates and the renewable power liability are derecognised upon settling the liability with the respective regulator.
Consolidated Statement of Income presentation 
Purchases reflect all costs related to the acquisition of inventories and the effects of the changes therein, and include associated costs incurred in 
conversion into finished or intermediate products. Production and manufacturing expenses are the costs of operating, maintaining and managing 
production and manufacturing assets. Selling, distribution and administrative expenses include direct and indirect costs of marketing and selling 
products.
3. Changes to IFRS not yet adopted
Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction (Amendments to IAS 12 Income
taxes (IAS 12))
In May 2021, amendments to IAS 12 were published to require companies to recognise deferred tax on particular transactions that, on 
initial recognition, give rise to equal amounts of taxable and deductible temporary differences. The amendments will typically apply to 
transactions where assets and liabilities are recognised from a single transaction, such as leases for the lessee and decommissioning and 
restoration obligations.
The amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2023, and should be applied on a modified 
retrospective basis.
Shell performed an analysis of the impact of these amendments and concluded that these have no significant effect on future financial reporting.
IFRS 17 Insurance contracts (IFRS 17)
IFRS 17 was issued in 2017, with amendments published in 2020 and 2021, and is required to be adopted for annual reporting periods beginning 
on or after January 1, 2023. The IFRS 17 model combines a current balance sheet measurement of insurance contracts with recognition of profit 
over the period that services are provided. The general model in the standard requires insurance contract liabilities to be measured using 
probability-weighted current estimates of future cash flows, an adjustment for risk, and a contractual service margin representing the profit 
expected from fulfilling the contracts. Effects of changes in the estimates of future cash flows and the risk adjustment relating to future services 
are recognised over the period services are provided rather than immediately in profit or loss. Shell performed an analysis of the impact of 
IFRS 17 and concluded that the standard has no significant impact on future financial reporting.
4. Climate change and energy transition
This note describes how Shell has considered climate-related impacts in key areas of the financial statements and how this translates into 
the valuation of assets and measurement of liabilities as Shell makes progress in the energy transition. The note is structured as follows:
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
252 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Climate change and energy transition
Portfolio changes
Estimated useful life
Price sensitivities using climate 
pricelines
Carbon price sensitivities
Portfolio changes
Estimated useful life
Price sensitivities – reﬁning margins
Financial planning 
and assumptions
Carrying value of assets
Marketing
Renewables and Energy Solutions
Discount rate sensitivity
Global oil and gas demand sensitivities
Deferred tax assets 
Decommissioning and other provisions
Onerous contracts
Dividend resilience
Physical risks
Integrated Gas and Upstream
Chemicals and Products
252
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
Note 2 Significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates describes uncertainties, including those that have the potential to have a 
material effect on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the next 12 months. This note describes the key areas of climate impacts that potentially 
have short-, medium- and longer-term effects on amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2022. Where relevant, 
this note contains references to other notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and aims to provide an overarching summary of the energy 
transition impact. 
In 2021, Shell launched its Powering Progress strategy to become a net-zero emissions business by 2050. The strategy includes targets to reduce 
absolute emissions from its operations and the energy it buys to run them, compared with 2016 levels. Shell's targets include reducing Scope 1 and 
2 emissions by 50% by 2030 and reducing the carbon intensity of energy products sold (Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions) by 6-8% by 2023, 9-12% 
by 2024, 9-13% by 2025, 20% by 2030, 45% by 2035, and 100% by 2050. 
Financial planning and assumptions
This section provides an overview of key assumptions used for financial planning related to climate change and the energy transition. These 
assumptions that underpin the amounts recognised in these financial statements -- such as future oil and gas prices, discount rates, future costs 
of decommissioning and restoration, and deferred tax assets -- take climate change and energy transition into account and are similarly used for 
impairment testing of carrying amounts of assets. Areas described focus on those most pertinent to Shell’s business and how financial planning 
and assumptions interact with scenarios. Subsequently, the sensitivity of carrying amounts to commodity prices, carbon costs, discount rates 
and demand, if different assumptions were applied, is described.
There is no one single scenario that underpins the financial statements. Shell scenarios are designed to challenge management’s perspectives on 
the future business environment and stretch management to consider even events that may be only remotely possible. As a result, these scenarios 
are not intended to be predictions of likely future events or outcomes and are not the basis for Shell's financial statements and Operating Plans. 
Shell scenarios and the range of possible outcomes inform the development of Shell's strategy and Shell’s view on future oil and gas price outlooks 
and refining margins. These oil and gas price outlooks are one of the key assumptions that underpin Shell’s financial statements. Shell’s scenarios 
inform high-, mid- and low-price outlooks. The mid-price outlook represents management’s reasonable best estimate and is the basis for Shell's 
financial statements, Operating Plans and impairment testing. Impairment testing applies management's reasonable best estimates across the 
full life cycle of assets.
Shell’s targets to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions [A] by 50% by 2030, compared with 2016 levels on a net basis, and a 20% reduction 
of net carbon intensity [B] by 2030 have been included in Shell's Operating Plan. The Operating Plan also includes expected costs for evolving 
carbon regulations (see section "Carbon cost sensitivities" below) based on a forecast of Shell’s equity share of emissions from operated and
non-operated assets also taking into account the estimated impact of free allowances.
[A] Operational control boundary
[B] GHG emissions based on the energy product sales included in the Net Carbon Intensity (NCI) using equity boundary. 
Goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and joint ventures and associates
As from January 1, 2022 segments are aligned with the Powering Progress strategy. (see Note 8) 
The carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets, property plant and equipment, and joint ventures and associates by segment as at 
December 31, 2022, was as follows:
 Carrying value
 
$ billion
Goodwill
Other 
intangible 
assets
Property, 
plant and 
equipment
Joint ventures 
and 
associates Total
Integrated Gas  4.9  3.9  60.8  5.6  75.2 
Upstream  5.3  0.2  74.5  7.7  87.7 
Chemicals and Products  0.3  2.1  38.1  4.2  44.7 
Marketing  3.3  1.8  19.1  4.4  28.6 
Renewables and Energy solutions  2.2  1.6  3.2  1.9  8.9 
Corporate  —  0.1  2.9  0.1  3.1 
Total  16.0  9.7  198.6  23.9  248.2 
For Integrated Gas and Upstream, sensitivity to commodity prices and carbon prices has been tested (see below) covering the carrying amount 
of goodwill, other intangible assets, property plant and equipment, and joint ventures and associates. Sensitivity testing was performed applying 
alternative price scenarios to the forecasted cash flows for the whole period until the end of life of the asset tested. For Chemicals and Products, 
sensitivity to refining margins has been tested (see below). Marketing and Renewables and Energy Solutions are expected to be resilient through 
the energy transition with limited exposure of stranded assets. 
In addition, sensitivity to changes in the discount rate applied in impairment testing has also been tested (see below).
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
253 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
253
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
Carrying value of Integrated Gas and Upstream assets
Carrying value of Integrated Gas 
and Upstream assets
$ billion as at December 31
Carrying value of production assets
$ billion as at December 31
Carrying value of exploration and 
evaluation assets
$ billion as at December 31
[A] Including right of use assets for the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases in 2019.
Within Integrated Gas and Upstream, the assets potentially most sensitive to the energy transition are production assets and exploration and 
evaluation assets. Both production assets of $117 billion and exploration and evaluation assets of $6 billion are recognised within Property, 
plant and equipment within Integrated Gas and Upstream.
Portfolio changes
Since 2016, the carrying amount of production assets in Integrated Gas and Upstream decreased from $169 billion as at December 31, 2016, to 
$117 billion as at December 31, 2022. Over this period, depreciation was higher than additions for each year, and disposals of property, plant 
and equipment with a carrying amount of some $25 billion occurred. The carrying amount of capitalised exploration and evaluation expenses 
decreased from $19 billion as at December 31, 2016, to $6 billion at December 31, 2022. This is the result of final investment decisions, 
reclassifications to production assets and amounts charged to expenses exceeding additions. 
Estimated useful life
The energy transition and the pace at which it progresses may impact the remaining life of assets. Integrated Gas and Upstream assets are 
generally depreciated using a unit-of-production methodology where depreciation generally depends on production of SEC proved reserves (see 
Note 2). Based on production plans of existing assets, some 35%, 5% and 0% of SEC proved reserves as at December 31, 2022, would currently 
be left by 2030,2040 and 2050, respectively. Based on the unit-of-production depreciation methodology applied, carrying amounts for individual 
assets are depreciated to nil in the same pattern as the depletion of reserves towards nil. An analysis of Integrated Gas and Upstream production 
assets of $117 billion as at December 31, 2022, based on planned reserves depletion shows that these assets would be significantly further 
depreciated under the unit-of-production method by 2030 and fully depreciated by 2050. This provides a further perspective on the risk of 
stranded assets carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2022. 
Price sensitivities using climate price lines
As noted, in accordance with IFRS, Shell’s financial statements are based on reasonable and supportable assumptions that represent 
management’s current best estimate of the range of economic conditions that may exist in the foreseeable future. The mid-price outlook informed 
by Shell’s scenario planning represents management’s best estimate. A change of -10% or +10% to the mid-price outlook, as an average 
percentage over the whole life cycle of assets, would result in around $2-5 billion (2021: $12-15 billion) impairment or of some $2-4 billion
(2021: $6-9 billion) impairment reversal respectively in Integrated Gas and Upstream (see Note 12). Compared with prior year the impact
of a 10% change in commodity prices is significantly lower as a result of the higher short- and medium-term commodity prices that both
resulted in impairment reversals in 2022 and higher headroom in impairment testing.
The energy transition will continue to bring volatility and there is significant uncertainty as to how commodity prices will develop over the next 
decades. Some price lines see a structurally lower price during the transition period, while other price lines see structurally higher commodity 
prices as a result of changes in both supply and demand. As the risk of stranded assets is prevalent with downside price risk in energy transition 
scenarios, sensitivities have only been undertaken for such downside scenarios. If different price outlooks from external and often normative 
climate change scenarios were used, this would impact the recoverability of certain assets recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 
December 31, 2022. These external scenarios are not representative of management’s mid-price reasonable best estimate.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
254 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
0
2016 2017 2018 2019
[A]
2020
[A]
2021
[A]
2022
[A]
50
200
100
150
169
154 149 150
132
117118
0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
50
250
200
100
150
136
231
222 214 212
185
166 163
128 123 119
106
88
757579
93919495
91
a bIG Upstream
b
a
0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
5
20
10
15
19 19
18
15
9
6
7
254
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
Sensitivity of carrying amounts to commodity prices described below is under the assumption that all other factors in the models used, such as cost 
levels, volumes, mid-price CO2 assumptions and the discount rate, to calculate recoverability of carrying amounts remain unchanged. Sensitivity 
testing has been performed by applying the alternative commodity price scenarios to cash flows for the whole period until the end of life of the 
assets tested. The alternative commodity prices were applied in the local cash flow models and thereafter aggregated by segment. Changes to 
commodity prices are applied because of the significant impact on Shell’s business. It should be noted that a significant decrease in long-term 
forecasted commodity prices would probably lead to further changes, such as in portfolio choices and cost levels.
Sensitivity to changes in commodity prices has been tested as follows:
Priceline 1 – Average prices from three [A] 1.5-2 degrees Celsius external climate change scenarios: in view of the broad range of price outlooks 
across the various scenarios, the average of three external price outlooks was taken.
[A] The IEA SDS scenario applied in 2021 is no longer published and has therefore been taken out for 2022.
▪ IHS Markit/ACCS 2022 – under this scenario oil prices (real terms 2022 (RT22)) gradually decrease towards $36.5 per barrel (/b) in 2039, 
recovering to $94.3/b in 2050. Gas prices (RT22) decrease from $3.7 per million British thermal units (/MMBtu) in 2023 towards 2024 to 
slightly below $3/MMBtu for Henry Hub, remaining around that level until 2050. For Europe, prices decrease from $35/MMbtu in 2023 
towards around $4/MMBtu in 2029, remaining around that level until 2040 and then gradually increasing to a level around $5/MMBtu in 
2050. For Asia, prices decrease towards around $5/MMBtu in 2029, again gradually increasing from 2045 to a level around $6/MMBtu
in 2050.
▪ Woodmac WM AET-1.5 degree – under this scenario oil prices (RT22) gradually decrease towards $27/b in 2050. Gas prices (RT22) 
decrease from around $5/MMBtu in 2023 to $3/MMBtu in 2024, gradually increasing to some $4/MMBtu in 2045 and again decreasing
to some $3/MMBtu in 2050 for Henry Hub. For Asia and Europe, gas prices (RT22) decrease from around $30/MMBtu in 2023 to some
$6/MMBtu and $5/MMBtu respectively in 2031, gradually increasing again to some $10/MMBtu and some $8/MMbtu respectively around 
2040 and subsequently decreasing to $6/MMBtu and some $5/MMBtu respectively in 2050.
▪ IEA NZE50 – under this scenario oil prices (RT22) gradually decrease towards some $25/b in 2050. Gas prices (RT22) decrease from some
$3.5/MMBtu in 2023 to around $2/MMBtu for Henry Hub in 2030, remaining slightly below that level until 2050. For Asia and Europe, gas 
prices (RT22) decrease from some $10/MMBtu and $9/MMBtu respectively in 2023 to some $6/MMBtu and $5/MMBtu respectively around 
2030, with a decrease towards some $5/MMBtu and $4/MMBtu respectively in 2050.
This average priceline provides an external view of the development of commodity prices under 1.5-2 degrees Celsius external climate change 
scenarios over the whole period under review. 
Applying this priceline to Integrated Gas assets of $75 billion (2021: $65 billion [A]) and Upstream assets of $88 billion (2021: $89 billion [A]) 
as at December 31, 2022, shows recoverable amounts that are $4-6 billion (2021: $13-16 billion) and $1-2 billion (2021: $14-17 billion) lower, 
respectively, than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2022.
[A] In 2022 goodwill and other intangibles were included in the scope for sensitivity testing. In 2021 these assets were not within the scope of sensitivity testing. Based on the 2022 sensitivity 
testing performed, it is unlikely that if these assets would have been included in the scope for 2021 testing, this would have resulted in a material impact on the outcome of sensitivity testing.
Priceline–2 - Hybrid Shell Plan and IEA NZE50: this priceline applies Shell’s mid-price outlook for the next 10 (see Note 12). Because of the greater 
uncertainty, the International Energy Agency (IEA) normative Net Zero Emissions scenario for the period after 10 years is applied. This weights 
less price-risk uncertainty to the first 10 reflected in the Operating Plan period and applies more risk to the more uncertain subsequent periods. 
Applying this priceline to Integrated Gas assets of $75 billion (2021: $65 billion) and Upstream assets of $88 billion (2021: $89 billion) 
as at December 31, 2022, shows recoverable amounts that are $4-6 billion (2021: $10-12 billion) and $1-2 billion (2021:$5-6 billion) lower, 
respectively, than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2022. 
Priceline–3 - IEA NZE50: this priceline applies the IEA normative Net Zero Emissions scenario over the whole period under review. This priceline 
has been applied for the first time in the current year in order to also reflect the sensitivity to a pure net-zero emissions scenario from the IEA. 
Applying this priceline to Integrated Gas assets of $75 billion and Upstream assets of $88 billion as at December 31, 2022, shows recoverable 
amounts that are $9-12 billion and $8-11 billion lower, respectively, than the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2022. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
255 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
255
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
 Oil price assumptions
[A] The Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) is a group of 65 central banks and supervisors and 83 observers committed to sharing best practices, contributing to the development 
of climate– and environment–related risk management in the financial sector and mobilising mainstream finance to support the transition toward a sustainable economy. This scenario results 
from the NGFS GCAM model. This model embodies certain assumptions on the relationships between economic and energy output and climate interactions. This NGFS scenario shows a 
decline in world oil demand relative to the current policies baseline, in part a response to substitution away from fossil fuels. At the same time prices increase due to supply constraints. 
[B] All figures are presented on RT22 basis unless noted differently.
The graph above shows the oil pricelines on a real-terms basis applied for the period until 2050 for Shell’s mid-price outlook in comparison with 
the IEA announced pledges (IEA APS) scenario, the NGFS GCAM NZE 2050 scenario, the average prices from three 1.5-2 degrees Celsius 
external climate change scenarios (Priceline 1, above) and the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario (IEA NZE50, Priceline 3 above). The 
development of future oil prices is uncertain and oil prices have been subject to significant volatility in the past. Future oil prices may be impacted 
by future changes in macroeconomic factors, available supply, demand, geopolitical and other factors. The pricelines as per the scenarios NGFS 
GCAM NZE 2050, IEA APS, the average prices from three 1.5-2 degrees Celsius external climate change scenarios and IEA NZE50 differ from 
Shell’s best estimate and view of the future oil price.
 Sensitivity + 10% to the mid-price outlook
$ billion
Carrying amount Sensitivity
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021 [A] 2022 2021
Integrated Gas  75  65  2  3  3  5 
Upstream  88  89  —  1  3  4 
Total  163  154  2  4  6  9 
 
Sensitivity averaged from three below-two-degrees-
Celsius external climate scenarios 
$ billion
Carrying amount Sensitivity
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021 [A] 2022 2021
Integrated Gas  75  65  (4)  (6)  (13)  (16) 
Upstream  88  89  (1)  (2)  (14)  (17) 
Total  163  154  (5)  (8)  (27)  (33) 
 Sensitivity IEA NZE50
$ billion
Carrying amount Sensitivity
Dec 31, 2022 2022
Integrated Gas  75  (9)  (12) 
Upstream  88  (8)  (11) 
Total  163  (17)  (23) 
 Sensitivity - 10% to the mid-price outlook
$ billion
Carrying amount Sensitivity
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021 [A] 2022 2021
Integrated Gas  75  65  (2)  (4)  (8)  (10) 
Upstream  88  89  —  (1)  (4)  (5) 
Total  163  154  (2)  (5)  (12)  (15) 
 Sensitivity Hybrid Shell Plan + IEA NZE50
$ billion
Carrying amount Sensitivity
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021 [A] 2022 2021
Integrated Gas  75  65  (4)  (6)  (10)  (12) 
Upstream  88  89  (1)  (2)  (5)  (6) 
Total  163  154  (5)  (8)  (15)  (18) 
[A] In 2022 goodwill and other intangibles were included in the scope for sensitivity testing.  
In 2021 these assets were not within the scope of sensitivity testing. Based on the 2022 
sensitivity testing performed, it is unlikely that if these assets would have been included in 
the scope for 2021 testing, this would have resulted in a material impact on the outcome of 
sensitivity testing.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
256 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
c NGFS GCAM NZE 2050 [A] 
d IEA APS e Shell mid-price f Average prices from three 1.5-2 degrees Celsius external climate change scenarios g IEA NZE50
a Monthly average price (actual on money of the day basis) b Monthly average price (actual on real terms basis using US CPI all urban consumers)
$0
2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2040 20502035 2045
$20
$40
$60
$160
$140
$100
$120
$80
$0
$20
$40
$60
$160
$140
$100
$120
$80
c
a
b d
e
f
g
256
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
Carbon price sensitivities 
Carbon costs in the Operating Plan
The Operating Plan includes capital expenditure and operating costs to achieve Scope 1 and 2 emission reduction targets (see above). These 
include asset level abatement project costs that drive efficiencies and reduce emissions, expected costs for evolving carbon regulations based 
on a forecast of Shell’s equity share of emissions and costs of offsets for any residual amounts. 
The total capital expenditure for abatement projects in relation to efficiency improvements, energy and chemicals parks transformations and 
use of renewable power included in the Operating Plan are in excess of $4 billion. Total yearly carbon emission costs in Shell’s Operating Plan 
gradually increase from some $0.8 billion in 2023 to some $1.5 billion in 2032 using the mid-price scenario. The sensitivity of carrying values 
of assets to changes in carbon prices is described in the section below. 
Methods for estimating costs vary depending on the nature of the cost. Abatement projects costs to improve efficiencies and reduce emissions 
are estimated by applying a bottom-up approach where individual opportunities on an asset-level, project-by-project basis are identified. 
Costs for evolving carbon regulations are based on a forecast of Shell’s equity share of emissions and are included in the Operating Plan at Shell’s
mid-price outlook on a country-by-country basis and represent management’s best estimate. In the short and near term, up to 2030, costs for 
carbon emissions estimates are largely policy driven, through emission trading schemes or taxation levied by governments which currently vary 
significantly on a country-by-country basis. Beyond 2030, where policy predictions are more challenging, the costs for carbon emissions are 
estimated based on the expected costs of abatement technologies required for 2050. The costs are estimated to be at $125 per tonne (RT22) 
under Shell’s mid-price scenario. Under Shell's high-price scenario, the costs are set at $220 per tonne (RT22), the top of the bioenergy with 
CCS cost range and the lower end of the direct air capture cost range.
Sensitivity to changes in carbon price assumptions
There is significant uncertainty as to how carbon costs will develop over the next decades. These will depend on policies set by countries and 
the pace of the energy transition. In accordance with IFRS, Shell’s financial statements are based on reasonable and supportable assumptions 
that represent management’s current best estimate which is policy based up to 2030 and then the mid-price outlook beyond 2030. As the risk 
of stranded assets is prevalent with higher carbon emission prices than anticipated, sensitivity analyses have only been undertaken for such a 
downside scenario. If the IEA NZE 2050 outlook is applied, this would impact the recoverability of certain assets recognised in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2022. This scenario is not representative of management's mid-price reasonable best estimate.
Sensitivity of carrying amounts to carbon emission costs as described below is under the assumption that all other factors in the models used to 
calculate recoverability of carrying amounts remain unchanged. Changes to carbon emission costs are applied for Integrated Gas and Upstream 
because of the potential impact on Shell’s business. 
Applying the IEA NZE 2050 carbon price scenario to Integrated Gas assets of $75 billion and Upstream assets of $88 billion,up to the end of life 
of these assets, shows recoverable amounts that are $2-5 billion lower for Integrated Gas and not significantly lower for Upstream than the 
carrying amounts as at December 31, 2022. 
 Sensitivity IEA NZE 2050 carbon price scenario
 
$ billion
Carrying amount Sensitivity
Integrated Gas  75  (2)  (5) 
Upstream  88  —  — 
Total  163  (2)  (5) 
Application of the IEA NZE 2050 carbon price scenario had no significant impact on the carrying value of Upstream assets due to the existing headroom over the carrying value.
For the key regions and countries the following carbon prices per tonne (RT22) have been assumed in the Operating Plan:
 
Operating Plan period
Subsequent 
period
Region 2023-2029 2030-2032 2033-2050
European Union $71-$121 $84-$88 $90 -$125
Canada (Federal) $40-$50 $54-$61 $65-$125
United States (Federal) $0-$22 $27-$37 $42-$125
Australia $25-$35 $36-$45 $50-$125
All other countries $0-$37 $0-$49 $19-$125
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
257 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
257
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
The graph below shows the carbon pricelines per tonne for the European Union on an RT22 basis under Shell’s mid-price outlook in comparison 
with the IEA NZE 2050 scenario. The IEA NZE 2050 scenario differs from Shell’s best estimate and view of the future CO2 prices. Sensitivity 
of carrying amounts to the IEA NZE 2050 carbon price scenario is provided above.
 
CO2 prices - European Union
RT22 $/tonne
Carrying value of Chemicals and Products assets
 
Carrying value of Chemicals and Products assets
$ billion as at December 31
 
Carrying value of refineries
$ billion as at December 31
[A] In 2017, two refineries were acquired following dissolution of the Motiva joint venture in 
the USA.
[B] Includes refineries held for sale ($1.5 billion).
Within Chemicals and Products, the assets potentially most sensitive to the energy transition are refineries. 
Portfolio changes
Since 2016, Shell’s Chemicals and Products portfolio has evolved, shifting from 15 refineries at the end of 2016 towards five energy and chemicals 
parks. During that period Shell assumed the sole ownership of two refineries through the dissolution of the Motiva joint venture, and disposed of, 
converted or closed nine refineries. The carrying amount of refineries decreased from $10 billion as at December 31, 2016, to $6 billion as at 
December 31, 2022. In line with Shell’s strategy, Shell’s refining footprint is being transformed into five energy and chemicals parks that will 
provide feedstocks for the chemicals and lubricants business, as well as other low-carbon energy products, including biofuels and hydrogen. 
This transformation will involve investments in assets within these energy parks that will be recognised as separate cash-generating units and 
are expected to be resilient in the energy transition, and hence their carrying amounts may increase.
Estimated useful life
Refineries in the Chemicals and Products segment (carrying amount as at December 31, 2022, $6 billion (2021: $6 billion) of which $5 billion 
(2021: $5 billion) relates to refineries in the five energy and chemicals parks (2021: excluding refineries classified as held for sale)) may be 
impacted under a two-degrees-Celsius or less external climate scenario. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
258 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ba Shell mid-price IEA NZE 50
0
2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033 2034 2035 2036 2037 2038 2039 2040 2041 20432042 2044 2045 2046 2047 2048 2049 2050
50
300
250
150
200
100
b
a
0
2016 2017 [A] 2018 2019 2020 2021 [B] 2022
4
16
8
12
10
14 14
13
7 7
6
6
a bChemicals Reﬁneries
b
c
a
0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
10
50
20
40
30
26
10
1
15
14
8
16
14
7
18
13
12
22
7
11
25
6
11
27
6
11
28
38 39
47
43 44 45
c Other
258
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
For refineries in Chemicals and Products, depreciation of assets is on a straight-line basis over the life of the assets, starting at the date the asset 
becomes available for use, over a period of 20 years (see Note 2). Over the course of the energy transition, the current carrying amount of 
refineries will be fully depreciated, offset by anticipated investments in assets that are expected to be resilient in the energy transition as described 
above. Based on current depreciation of the carrying amounts as at December 31, 2022, and assuming no further investment, all refineries would 
be fully depreciated between four and 14 years. 
In addition to refineries, further assets of $39 billion include $28 billion of assets in relation to Chemicals which are expected to be resilient 
through the energy transition as chemical products are not produced with the aim to combust and consequently do not generate GHG emissions.
Other assets of $11 billion includes $7 billion of assets in relation to trading and supply are also expected to be resilient in the energy transition. 
Another $1.6 billion of assets relates to oil sands. Based on production plans for oil sands assets, some 80%, 56% and 31% of SEC proved 
reserves as at December 31, 2022, would currently be left by 2030, 2040 and 2050, respectively. Taking into consideration the carrying amount 
as at December 31, 2022 and depreciation under the unit-of-production methodology, this provides a further perspective on the risk of stranded 
oil sands assets carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2022. 
Price sensitivities
Refining margins included in the Operating Plan are at an average of $6.22/bbl. A change of -$1/bbl or +$1/bbl to the refining margin 
outlook period would result in around $1-3 billion impairment or in some $1-3 billion impairment reversal respectively in Chemicals and Products 
(see Note 12). 
Carrying value of Marketing assets
 
Carrying value of Marketing assets
$ billion as at December 31
Portfolio changes
Assets in the Marketing segment are expected to be resilient through the energy transition with a change in the product mix as the energy 
transition progresses. The demand for products sold such as chemicals, lubricants, biofuels, bitumen, electric vehicle charging and convenience 
retail is not expected to decrease and is expected to increase for a variety of these products in many markets. As a result the carrying value 
of these assets is not expected to be impacted by the energy transition or lower commodity price scenarios.
Carrying value of Renewables and Energy Solutions assets
 
Carrying value of Renewables and Energy Solutions assets
$ billion as at December 31
Portfolio changes
Assets in the Renewables and Energy Solutions segment are expected to be resilient through the energy transition. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
259 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
0
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
10
35
20
15
5
25
30
15 15
20
23
25
29
0
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
2
10
4
6
8
1 1
3 3
5
9
259
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

4. Climate change and energy transition continued
Discount rate sensitivity 
The discount rate applied for impairment testing is based on a nominal post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and is determined at 
5% for Power activities and 6.5% for all other businesses. The discount rate includes generic system risk for climate change risk. In addition, cash 
flow projections applied in individual assets include specific asset risks, including risk of transition. An increase in systematic climate risk could lead 
to a higher WACC and consequently to a higher discount rate to be applied in impairment testing. An increase of the discount rate applied for 
impairment testing of 1% under the assumption that all other factors in the models used to calculate recoverability of carrying amounts remain 
unchanged would lead to a change in the carrying amount of $1-3 billion for Integrated Gas, and up to $1 billion in each of the following 
segments: Upstream, Chemicals and Products and Renewables and Energy Solutions, and no significant impairment in Marketing and Corporate.
Global oil and gas demand sensitivities 
A decrease in global demand and unchanged supply of oil and gas would likely lead to a decrease in price (see price sensitivity above). During 
2022 Shell’s production of oil and gas accounted for 1.5% and 2% of total global production of oil and gas respectively. Changes in global oil 
and gas demand are therefore not expected to directly impact the ability to sell volumes of oil and gas produced by Shell at market prices. 
Deferred tax assets
In general, it is expected that sufficient deferred tax liabilities and forecasted taxable profits within the planning period of 10 years are available 
for recovery of the deferred tax assets recognised at December 31, 2022. Integrated Gas and Upstream deferred tax assets recognised are 
expected to be recovered within the period of production of each asset. For deferred tax assets of $303 million as at December 31, 2022 (2021: 
$711 million) this period extends beyond 10 years. Deferred tax assets in Chemicals and Products and in Marketing expected to be recovered 
in more than 10 years are $382 million as at December 31, 2022 (2021: $854 million). In Chemicals and Products, cash flows beyond 10 years 
(for a maximum of an additional 10 years) were further risked to determine recoverability of deferred tax assets beyond 10 years (see Note 22). 
Decommissioning and other provisions
The energy transition may result in decommissioning and restoration occurring earlier than expected. The risk on the timing of decommissioning 
and restoration activities for Integrated Gas and Upstream fields is limited, supported by production plans in the foreseeable future (see 
"Estimated useful life" above). Acceleration of decommissioning and restoration activities has also been reflected in the assessment of the 
appropriate discount rate. In 2021, the discount rate was revised from a 30-year to a 20-year term in line with the average remaining life of 
Integrated Gas and Upstream assets. On an undiscounted basis the provision for decommissioning and restoration as at December 31, 2022 
was $33 billion,recognised on a discounted basis in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 2022 at $20 billion (2021: $22 billion). 
Sensitivity to changes in the discount rate is provided in Note 24.
In Chemicals and Products, it was industry practice not to recognise decommissioning and restoration provisions associated with manufacturing 
facilities. This was on the basis that these assets were considered to have indefinite lives, so it was considered remote that an outflow of economic 
benefits would be required. In 2020, Shell considered the changed macroeconomic fundamentals, together with Shell’s plans to rationalise the 
Group’s manufacturing portfolio. Shell also reconsidered whether it remained appropriate not to recognise decommissioning and restoration 
provisions for manufacturing facilities. Since 2020, decommissioning and restoration provisions are recognised for certain shorter-lived 
manufacturing facilities (see Notes 24 and 31). The remaining five energy and chemicals parks are considered longer-lived facilities that 
are expected to be resilient in the energy transition, and decommissioning would generally be more than 50 years away.
Onerous contracts
Closure or early termination of activities may lead to supply contracts becoming onerous. Onerous contract provisions (see Note 24) have been 
recognised as at December 31, 2022, to reflect changes in expected future utilisation of certain assets. These include contracts in relation to 
unused terminals and refineries. The total carrying amount of the provision for onerous contracts as at December 31, 2022 was $1.5 billion 
(2021: $1.7 billion) principally related to contracts in relation to unused terminals and refineries.
Dividend resilience
External stakeholders have requested disclosures on how climate change affects dividend-paying capacity. If a further impairment had been 
recognised in 2022 using any of the climate change scenarios described above, this would not have impacted the ability to pay dividends in 
this financial year because of the strong cash flow generation and financial reserves. Had Shell applied the IEA NZE50 scenario (see above), 
and if this had led to a decrease in the recoverable amount of Integrated Gas and Upstream assets of $17-23 billion and recognition of an 
equivalent impairment, this would not have impacted the distributable reserves available to Shell from which to pay dividends in 2022. This 
is on the basis that such impairment would have resulted in part-realisation of the merger reserve recognised by the Company of $234 billion
as at December 31, 2022.
A forward-looking statement regarding future dividend-paying capacity cannot be provided because of unknown risks and uncertainties that 
could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements.
Physical risks
Potential physical impacts to Shell's assets, irrespective of cause, are important for Shell to manage. 
Climate variability is considered in the design and operation of Shell's assets and infrastructure to minimise the risk of adverse incidents to Shell's 
employees and contractors, the communities where Shell operates, its equipment and infrastructure. Shell's new projects consider anticipated 
weather and climatic events in their design and Metocean (meteorology and oceanography) engineering experts are available, if required, to 
assist Shell's assets and project teams in the evaluation of physical risks. 
On an ongoing basis, Shell's assets leverage broad risk and threat management processes to identify and respond to emerging challenges to their 
ongoing safe, compliant and efficient operation, as required by Shell's HSSE & SP Control Framework.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
260 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
260
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

5. Emission schemes and related environmental programmes
Emission trading and related schemes
In general, emission trading schemes (ETS) are mandated governmental schemes to control emission levels and enhance clean energy transition, 
allowing for the trading of emission certificates. In most ETS, governments set an emission cap for one or more sectors. Generally, entities in scope 
of the scheme are allowed to buy emission certificates to cover shortages or sell surplus emission certificates. In certain countries emissions are 
priced through a carbon tax. For Shell, the most significant carbon pricing mechanisms are established in Europe, Canada and Singapore.
Biofuel programmes
Biofuel programmes are mandated governmental schemes that set binding national targets on the share of renewables in fuel consumption 
or measures on reducing GHG emissions by fuel suppliers. Biofuels are blended with existing fuels such as gasoline and diesel to reduce net 
emissions. The share of biofuel in the total sales mix of fuel is used to comply with regulatory requirements. This can be achieved by the blending 
of biofuels in refineries and/or distribution depots (self-blending), through import of biofuels (for jurisdictions that grant biofuels certificates at the 
point of import) or by the purchasing of certificates from third parties (for jurisdictions that have a tradable biofuel certificates mechanism). Biofuel 
programmes also include regulatory requirements to pay a levy for the combustion of fossil fuels, based on CO₂ emitted – mainly related to the 
German Fuel Emissions Trading Act (BEHG) applying since January 1, 2021. 
Renewable power programmes
Renewable power programmes create a financial incentive to consume power that is sourced from renewable origins or require that a minimum 
percentage of power sold meets the green definition of the relevant standard. These regulations are typically accompanied by schemes supporting 
investments in the renewable technology. Renewable power programmes generally use certificates to monitor compliance, where renewable 
power certificates are granted for each MWh of energy generated that meets the predefined renewable criteria. Shell’s compliance obligation 
under renewable power programmes comes primarily from energy supply and results from regulations applying in Europe, North America 
and Australia.
 
Cost of emission schemes and related environmental programmes recognised in the Consolidated Statement of 
Income
$ million
2022 2021 2020
ETS and related schemes  493  331  150 
Biofuels [A]  2,918  2,609  1,137 
Renewable power  594  455  364 
Total  4,005  3,395  1,651 
[A] Represents the cost of biofuel certificates required for compliance purposes over and above those generated from self-blending activities.
 Purchased environmental certificates (presented under Other intangible assets, see Note 11) [A]
 
$ million
ETS and 
related 
schemes Biofuels
Renewable 
power Total
At January 1, 2022  284  2,362  101  2,747 
Additions  385  1,485  468  2,338 
Settlements  (256)  (2,142)  (398)  (2,796) 
Other movements  27  (104)  (11)  (88) 
At December 31, 2022  440  1,601  160  2,201 
At January 1, 2021  157  780  76  1,013 
Additions  292  2,450  405  3,147 
Settlements  (115)  (754)  (355)  (1,224) 
Other movements  (50)  (114)  (25)  (189) 
At December 31, 2021  284  2,362  101  2,747 
[A] Relates to environmental certificates held for compliance purposes.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
261 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
261
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

5. Emission schemes and related environmental programmes continued
 Obligation (presented under Other payables, see Note 19) 
 
$ million
ETS and 
related 
schemes Biofuels
Renewable 
power Total
At January 1, 2022
Current  (270)  (3,262)  (273)  (3,805) 
Non-current  —  (182)  (29)  (211) 
 (270)  (3,444)  (302)  (4,016) 
Additions  (1,237)  (2,916)  (637)  (4,790) 
Additions covered by government grants  776 [A]  776 
Settlements  292  2,456  499  3,247 
Other movements  (19)  58  34  73 
 (188)  (402)  (104)  (694) 
At December 31, 2022
Current  (458)  (3,424)  (350)  (4,232) 
Non-current  —  (422)  (56)  (478) 
 (458)  (3,846)  (406)  (4,710) 
At January 1, 2021
Current  (154)  (1,549)  (290)  (1,993) 
Non-current  —  (54)  (6)  (60) 
 (154)  (1,603)  (296)  (2,053) 
Additions  (781)  (2,756)  (487)  (4,024) 
Additions covered by government grants  456 [A]  456 
Settlements  150  755  491  1,396 
Other movements  59  160  (10)  209 
 (116)  (1,841)  (6)  (1,963) 
At December 31, 2021
Current  (270)  (3,262)  (273)  (3,805) 
Non-current  —  (182)  (29)  (211) 
 (270)  (3,444)  (302)  (4,016) 
[A] Emission certificates that were allocated free of charge at an equivalent fair value at grant date.
Environmental certificates acquired that are held for compliance purposes are recognised at cost under intangible assets. In addition, a portfolio 
of environmental certificates is held for trading purposes and classified under inventory (see Note 2 and Note 16). Environmental certificates held 
for trading purposes can be redesignated for compliance purposes and then settle compliance obligations.
Cost recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income represents the compliance cost associated with emissions or with products sold during 
the year. The liability at year-end represents the compliance cost recognised over current and past compliance periods to the extent not settled 
to date. Liabilities are settled in line with compliance periods, which depend on the scheme and may not coincide with the calendar year. 
The figures present compliance schemes only, excluding voluntary activities.
6. Withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities
Following the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, Shell announced in the first quarter of 2022 its intent to:
▪ withdraw from its ventures in Russia with Gazprom and related entities, and to end its involvement in the Nord Stream 2 pipeline project;
▪ withdraw from its service station and lubricants operations in Russia; and
▪ withdraw in a phased manner from its involvement in all Russian hydrocarbons, including crude oil, petroleum products, gas and LNG,
aligned with new government guidance.
Since these announcements:
▪ Shell stopped all spot purchases of Russian crude, liquefied natural gas, and of cargoes of refined products directly exported from Russia. Shell 
has not renewed any long-term contracts for Russian crude, but was still legally obliged to take delivery of crude bought under contracts that 
were signed before the invasion. 
▪ All of Shell's long-term third-party purchases of Russian crude have stopped (when contractually allowed and all by the end of 2022). 
▪ All of Shell's contracts to purchase refined products exported from Russia have also ended. 
▪ Shell's two pipeline gas contracts terminated by the end of 2022. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
262 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
262
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

6. Withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities continued
▪ Shell still holds two long-term LNG offtake contracts with Russian entities, accounted for as regular sales and purchase contracts.
The counterparty in one of these contracts stopped delivering cargoes to Shell in the third quarter of 2022.
▪ Shell sold its service station and lubricants operations in Russia in the second quarter of 2022. 
These actions led to recognition of net pre-tax charges of $4,170 million (post-tax: $3,804 million) in 2022. These were recognised in: 
 
2022 $ million
Revenue  (468) 
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates  (1,614) 
Interest and other income/(expenses)  (1,116) 
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses  (104) 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  (695) 
Other  (173) 
Loss before taxation  (4,170) 
Taxation credit  (366) 
Loss for the period  (3,804) 
In relation to the assets with a potential exposure to Shell's intended withdrawal from all Russian hydrocarbons, including those assets for which 
the above charges were recognised during the year, there is a $0.1 billion balance sheet carrying amount as at December 31, 2022.
Further details are provided below.
Integrated Gas
Sakhalin-2
Shell holds a 27.5% (minus one share) interest in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (SEIC). Other ownership interests were Gazprom 50% 
(plus one share), Mitsui 12.5% and Mitsubishi 10%. Up to March 31, 2022, this investment was accounted for as an associate applying the equity 
method. Following the first quarter announcements, the recoverable amount of the investment was estimated as the risk-adjusted dividends 
declared on Sakhalin's 2021 results, of which the first part was received in April 2022. This resulted in recognition of an impairment charge of 
$1,614 million in the first quarter 2022. Significant influence over the Sakhalin-2 investment was lost from April 1, 2022, with the resignation of 
Shell's executive directors and withdrawal of managerial and technical staff, leading to recognition, without financial impact, of the investment 
as a financial asset accounted for at fair value from that date, with subsequent changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income. 
On June 30, 2022, a Russian Presidential Decree was passed requiring the transfer of all licences, rights and obligations of SEIC into a newly-
created Russian company (LLC) that would assume the rights and obligations of SEIC. The decree stated that the foreign shareholders would 
be invited to apply for shares in that entity equivalent to their shareholding in SEIC. Following the receipt of dividends in the second quarter 
2022 and the Presidential Decree, appropriate fair value adjustments to the investment value have been recognised, against other 
comprehensive income.
Shell understands that pursuant to the Presidential Decree, all licences, assets, rights and obligations of SEIC were purportedly transferred to 
the LLC on August 17, 2022. On September 1, 2022, Shell formally advised the Russian Federation (RFG) that it would not apply for shares in 
the LLC, that it objected to the purported transfers from SEIC to the LLC and that it reserved all rights and remedies. Shell understands the RFG has 
commenced a process to sell those shares in the LLC which Shell did not apply for. This process was expected to be completed in the first quarter 
2023, but the decree was amended in January 2023 to remove the timeline. Pursuant to the Presidential Decree, the RFG is also expected to 
conduct an audit of 'the activities of foreign shareholders in SEIC and/or individuals', based on which the RFG will determine the 'amount of 
damage caused' and 'persons liable to indemnify it'. The carrying value of the investment is zero as at December 31, 2022. 
Nord Stream 2
Shell is one of five energy companies which each committed to provide financing and guarantees for up to 10% of the total cost of the project, 
with the final loan instalments having been made in the second quarter 2020. Following the first quarter 2022 announcements, Shell assessed 
the recoverability of the loan to Nord Stream 2, leading to a full write-down in the first quarter 2022 of the loan amounting to $1,126 million. 
On September 26, 2022, one of the two Nord Stream 2 pipelines ruptured resulting in a gas leak and significant damage. Investigations are 
now under way to determine the cause of the rupture. The rupture had no financial impact, following the previous full write-down of the loan.
Upstream
Salym
Shell has a 50% interest in Salym Petroleum Development N.V. (Salym), a joint operation with GazpromNeft (GPN) that is developing the Salym 
fields in the Khanty Mansiysk Autonomous District of western Siberia. Shell consolidated its share in the joint operation. Following the first quarter 
announcements, Shell assessed the recoverability of the Salym carrying amounts, leading to full impairment amounting to $233 million in the first 
quarter 2022. In July 2022, the Shell directors of Salym resigned. Joint control was lost early in the third quarter 2022 and from that date Salym 
was accounted for as a financial asset at fair value, with a carrying value of zero. Pursuant to Russian legislative changes and court decisions in 
the second and third quarter 2022, the Russian branch of Salym was purportedly transformed into a Russian LLC (Salym Petroleum Development 
Limited Liability Company). All assets, rights and obligations of the Russian branch of Salym were purportedly transferred to that entity, of which 
Shell, purportedly, automatically held 50%. On March 3, 2023, Shell announced that it had completed the sale of its interest in Salym Petroleum 
Development Limited Liability Company to a subsidiary of GPN for which an agreement was signed on December 22, 2022. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
263 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
263
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

6. Withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities continued
Khanty-Mansiysk Petroleum Alliance partnership
Shell had a 50% interest in the Khanty-Mansiysk Petroleum Alliance partnership. Through this, Shell was a holder of a 50% interest in the CJSC 
Khanty-Mansiysk Petroleum Alliance. On February 22, 2023, Shell completed the sale of its interest in CJSC Khanty-Mansiysk Petroleum Alliance 
to a subsidiary of GPN for which an agreement was signed on December 22, 2022. 
Gydan
Shell had a 50% interest in LLC Gydan Energy, a joint operation with GazpromNeft to explore and develop blocks in the Gydan peninsula, in 
north-western Siberia. This project is in the exploration phase, with no production. Following the first quarter announcements, Shell assessed the 
recoverability of the Gydan carrying amounts, leading to full impairment amounting to $153 million and other charges of $35 million in the first 
quarter 2022. During the second quarter 2022, all rights and obligations for Shell’s 50% interest were transferred to GazpromNeft with an 
insignificant impact on the income statement.
Marketing
Shell Neft’s retail network consisted of 240 sites owned by Shell Neft and 171 sites owned by dealers and Shell Neft operated a lubricant 
blending plant. Shell Neft was a 100% Shell-owned subsidiary and was fully consolidated until the date of the disposal. Following the first 
quarter 2022 announcements, Shell assessed the recoverability of Shell Neft carrying amounts, resulting in an impairment of non-current assets 
of $358 million and other charges of $236 million. In the second quarter 2022, Shell transferred all shares of Shell Neft to Lukoil leading to net 
charges of $83 million, including the release of currency translation losses ($343 million). 
Other
Marked-to-market risk adjustments of $335 million related to long-term offtake natural gas contracts, an impairment of right-of-use assets of 
$114 million and other charges of $36 million were recognised in the first quarter 2022. In the second quarter 2022, further marked-to-market risk 
adjustments of $133 million were recognised following changes demanded to the contractual payment mechanism leading to the suspension by 
Gazprom of gas deliveries under these long-term offtake contracts. Finally, $140 million was recognised in income in the second quarter 2022 
from the derecognition of lease liabilities following the termination of lease arrangements for which the right-of-use assets were impaired in the 
first quarter 2022.
In September 2021, Shell signed a binding novation agreement to take over a GasTerra gas supply contract with Gazprom Export LLC 
(Gazprom), with the transfer to take effect from October 1, 2022. Upon transfer and pursuant to the novation agreement, Shell recognised the 
transfer of a payable of approximately €1.3 billion ($1.4 billion) in respect of gas delivered by Gazprom to GasTerra in April and May of 2022. 
An equivalent receivable from GasTerra was recognised pursuant to the terms of the novation agreement. Gazprom ceased to supply gas to 
GasTerra at the end of May 2022. The gas supply contract terminated in December 2022. 
7. Capital management
Shell manages its businesses to deliver strong cash flows to sustain its strategy and for profitable growth. Management's current priorities for 
applying Shell's cash are:
 
Capital discipline Resilient balance sheet
Cash capex within $23-27 billion
(2021: $19-22 billion)
▪ Includes inorganic capex
Targeting AA credit metrics through
the cycle
▪ Continued focus on Net debt reduction
in upcycle
▪ Divest for value
▪ Invest for value
Significant shareholder distributions
Around 4% annual growth
in dividend per share, subject
to Board approval (2021: 4%)
Sustainable progressive dividend
Total shareholder distributions ≥ 20-30% [A] of 
cash flow from operating activities (2021: 20-30%)
Total shareholder distributions (dividends + share buybacks) based on cash generation, macro-outlook and balance sheet trajectory.
[A] Subject to Board approval and prevailing market conditions.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
264 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Financial framework
Sustainable progressive dividend
Total shareholder distributions ≥ 20-30% [A]
of cash ﬂow from operating activities
Total shareholder distributions (dividends + share buybacks) based on cash generation, macro-outlook and balance sheet trajectory
[A] Potentially more than 30% (subject to Board approval and prevailing market conditions).
Capital
discipline
2023 cash capex within $23-27 billion
 Includes inorganic capex
Capital discipline
Signiﬁcant
shareholder
distributions
Resilient
balance
sheet
Resilient balance sheet
Targeting AA credit metrics through
the cycle
 Continued focus on Net debt reduction
 in upcycle
 Divest for value
 Invest for value
Around 4% annual growth
in dividend per share, subject
to Board approval
Signiﬁcant shareholder distributions
264
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

8. Segment information
General information 
Shell is an international energy company engaged in the principal aspects of the energy and petrochemicals industries and reports its business 
through segments. With effect from January 1, 2022, the reporting segments are aligned with Shell’s Powering Progress strategy. The Renewables 
and Energy Solutions business is now reported separately from Integrated Gas. Shales assets in Canada are now reported as part of the 
Integrated Gas segment instead of the Upstream segment. The Oil Products and Chemicals segments are reorganised into two segments – 
Marketing, and Chemicals and Products. Prior period comparatives have been revised to conform with current year presentation. The reporting 
segment changes have no impact at a Group level.
The Integrated Gas segment includes liquefied natural gas (LNG), conversion of natural gas into gas-to-liquids (GTL) fuels and other products. The 
segment includes natural gas and liquids exploration and extraction, and the operation of the upstream and midstream infrastructure necessary 
to deliver gas and liquids to market as well as the marketing, trading and optimisation of LNG, including LNG as a fuel for heavy-duty vehicles.
The Upstream segment includes exploration and extraction of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. It also markets and transports oil and 
gas, and operates the infrastructure necessary to deliver them to the market.
The Marketing segment comprises the Mobility, Lubricants, and Sectors & Decarbonisation businesses. The Mobility business operates Shell’s 
retail network including electric vehicle charging services. The Lubricants business produces, markets and sells lubricants for road transport, and 
machinery used in manufacturing, mining, power generation, agriculture and construction. The Sectors & Decarbonisation business sells fuels, 
speciality products and services including low-carbon energy solutions to a broad range of commercial customers including the aviation, marine, 
commercial road transport and agricultural sectors.
The Chemicals and Products segment includes chemicals manufacturing plants with their own marketing network, and refineries which turn crude 
oil and other feedstocks into a range of oil products which are moved and marketed around the world for domestic, industrial and transport use. 
The segment also includes the pipeline business, trading of crude oil, oil products and petrochemicals, and oil sands activities (the extraction of 
bitumen from mined oil sands and its conversion into synthetic crude oil).
The Renewables and Energy Solutions segment includes Shell’s Integrated Power activities, comprising electricity generation, marketing and 
trading of power and pipeline gas, and digitally enabled customer solutions. The segment also includes production and supply of decarbonised 
hydrogen, development of commercial carbon capture and storage hubs, as well as trading of carbon credits and investment in nature-based 
projects that avoid or reduce carbon.
The Corporate segment covers the non-operating activities supporting Shell, comprising Shell’s holdings and treasury organisation, its self-
insurance activities and its headquarters and central functions. All finance expense and income and related taxes are included in Corporate 
segment earnings rather than in the earnings of business segments.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
265 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Previous reporting segments
Integrated Gas
Upstream
Corporate
Marketing
Corporate
Upstream
Renewables and Energy Solutions
Chemicals and Products
Current reporting segments
Oil Products
Chemicals
Integrated Gas
265
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

8. Segment information continued
Basis of segmental reporting
Sales between segments are based on prices generally equivalent to commercially available prices. Third-party revenue and non-current assets 
information by geographical area are based on the country of operation of the Group subsidiaries that report this information. Separate disclosure 
is provided for the UK as this is the Company’s country of domicile. 
Segment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis (CCS earnings). On this basis, the purchase price of volumes sold during the 
period is based on the current cost of supplies during the same period after making allowance for the tax effect. CCS earnings therefore exclude 
the effect of changes in the oil price on inventory carrying amounts. CCS earnings attributable to Shell plc shareholders is the earnings measure 
used by the Chief Executive Officer for the purposes of making decisions about allocating resources and assessing performance. 
Finance expense and income related to core financing activities, as well as related taxes, are included in the Corporate segment earnings rather 
than in the earnings of the business segments.
Information by segment on a current cost of supplies basis is as follows:
 2022
 
$ million
Integrated 
Gas Upstream Marketing
Chemicals 
and Products
Renewables 
and Energy 
Solutions Corporate Total
Revenue:
Third-party  54,751  8,352  120,638  144,342  53,190  41  381,314 [A]
Inter-segment  18,412  52,285  606  2,684  6,791  —  80,778 
Share of profit/(loss) of joint ventures and 
associates (CCS basis)  1,219  2,111  237  374  (7)  (4)  3,930 
Interest and other income, of which:  (714)  726  (104)  244  57  706  915 
Interest income  43  22  —  24  (2)  959  1,046 
Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-
current assets and businesses  101  437  (186)  282  8  —  642 
Other  (858) [B]  267  82  (62)  51  (253)  (773) 
Third-party and inter-segment purchases (CCS 
basis)  37,785  10,666  108,012  127,521  57,024  (28)  340,980 
Production and manufacturing expenses  4,907  9,676  810  7,583  2,520  22  25,518 
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses  218  233  7,351  3,592  972  517  12,883 
Research and development expenses  112  456  222  187  98  —  1,075 
Exploration expenses  240  1,472  —  —  —  —  1,712 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 
charge, of which:  2,211  10,334  1,900  3,289  777  18  18,529 
Impairment losses  115  950  480  356  412  —  2,313 [C]
Impairment reversals  (3,449)  (2,504)  (151)  (73)  —  —  (6,177) [D]
Interest expense  84  345  46  22  2  2,682  3,181 
Taxation charge/(credit) (CCS basis)  5,899  14,070  903  935  (303)  (7)  21,497 
CCS earnings  22,212  16,222  2,133  4,515  (1,059)  (2,461)  41,562 
[A] Includes $11,708 million of revenue from sources other than from contracts with customers, which mainly comprises the impact of fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. This amount 
includes both the reversal of prior losses of $9,815 million related to sales contracts and prior gains of $7,201 million related to purchase contracts that were previously recognised and where 
physical settlement has taken place during 2022.
[B] Includes the full write-down of the Nord Stream 2 loan amounting to $1,126 million. (See Note 6).
[C] Impairment losses comprise Property, plant and equipment ($1,799 million, see Note 12), Goodwill ($361 million) and Other intangible assets ($153 million).
[D] Impairment reversals fully comprise Property, plant and equipment. (See Note 12).
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
266 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
266
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

8. Segment information continued
 2021
$ million
Integrated
 Gas [A]
Upstream 
[A]
Marketing 
[A]
Chemicals 
and Products 
[A]
Renewables 
and Energy 
Solutions [A] Corporate Total
Revenue:
Third-party  29,922  9,182  83,494  116,448  22,415  43  261,504 [B]
Inter-segment  8,072  35,789  254  1,890  4,675  —  50,680 
Share of profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates (CCS 
basis)  1,933  632  385  989  (27)  1  3,913 
Interest and other income, of which:  1,596  4,592  278  37  200  353  7,056 
Interest income  —  37  3  36  4  431  511 
Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets 
and businesses  1,610  4,130  285  (24)  (6)  —  5,995 
Other  (14)  425  (10)  25  202  (78)  550 
Third-party and inter-segment purchases (CCS basis)  20,188  9,094  70,745  103,294  26,048  (5)  229,364 
Production and manufacturing expenses  4,194  9,797  950  6,815  2,098  (32)  23,822 
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses  231  186  6,384  3,375  596  556  11,328 
Research and development expenses  101  339  167  157  51  —  815 
Exploration expenses  122  1,301  —  —  —  —  1,423 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charge, of which:  5,908  13,485  1,700  5,485  326  17  26,921 
Impairment losses  723  920  129  2,248  45  —  4,065 [C]
Impairment reversals  (204)  (9)  (1)  —  —  —  (214) [D]
Interest expense  71  333  27  44  —  3,132  3,607 
Taxation charge/(credit) (CCS basis)  2,648  6,057  903  (210)  (342)  (665)  8,391 
CCS earnings  8,060  9,603  3,535  404  (1,514)  (2,606)  17,482 
[A] Revised to conform with reporting segment changes applicable from 2022.
[B] Includes $126 million of revenue from sources other than from contracts with customers, which mainly comprises the impact of fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. This amount 
includes both the reversal of prior losses of $4,824 million related to sales contracts and prior gains of $4,892 million related to purchase contracts that were previously recognised and 
where physical settlement had taken place during 2021.
[C] Impairment losses mainly comprise Property, plant and equipment ($3,894 million, see Note 12) and Goodwill ($167 million).
[D] Impairment reversals fully comprise Property, plant and equipment. (See Note 12).
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
267 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
267
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

8. Segment information continued
 2020
$ million
Integrated
 Gas [A]
Upstream 
[A]
Marketing 
[A]
Chemicals 
and Products 
[A]
Renewables 
and Energy 
Solutions [A] Corporate Total
Revenue:
Third-party  20,865  6,743  55,845  84,657  12,382  51  180,543 [B]
Inter-segment  4,357  21,020  152  1,056  1,597  —  28,182 
Share of profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates (CCS 
basis)  612  (7)  491  1,064  (50)  (268)  1,842 
Interest and other income, of which:  212  541  143  (236)  (197)  406  869 
Interest income  —  56  4  25  5  589  679 
Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets 
and businesses  212  54  117  (129)  8  24  286 
Other  —  431  22  (132)  (210)  (207)  (96) 
Third-party and inter-segment purchases (CCS basis)  10,961  4,471  43,856  71,490  12,129  9  142,916 
Production and manufacturing expenses  4,957  10,195  779  6,952  1,091  27  24,001 
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses  60  (31)  5,380  3,391  606  475  9,881 
Research and development expenses  84  486  147  171  19  —  907 
Exploration expenses  616  1,131  —  —  —  —  1,747 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charge, of which:  19,314  21,079  1,499  10,096  424  32  52,444 
Impairment losses  13,464  7,274  44  6,492  180  9  27,463 [C]
Interest expense  78  369  43  16  3  3,580  4,089 
Taxation (credit)/charge (CCS basis)  (2,794)  (103)  846  (1,754)  (61)  (982)  (4,848) 
CCS earnings  (7,230)  (9,300)  4,081  (3,821)  (479)  (2,952)  (19,701) 
[A] Revised to conform with reporting segment changes applicable from 2022.
[B] Includes $10,008 million of revenue from sources other than from contracts with customers, which mainly comprises the impact of fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. This amount 
includes both the reversal of prior gains of $1,136 million related to sales contracts and prior losses of $539 million related to purchase contracts that were previously recognised and where 
physical settlement had taken place during 2020.
[C] Impairment losses comprise Property, plant and equipment ($26,676 million, see Note 12), Goodwill ($276 million) and Other intangible assets ($511 million).
 Reconciliation of CCS earnings to income for the period
$ million
 2022 2021 2020
Income/(loss) attributable to Shell plc shareholders  42,309  20,101  (21,680) 
Income attributable to non-controlling interest  565  529  146 
Income/(loss) for the period  42,874  20,630  (21,534) 
Current cost of supplies adjustment:
Purchases  (1,714)  (3,772)  2,359 
Taxation  444  808  (585) 
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates  (42)  (184)  59 
Current cost of supplies adjustment  (1,312)  (3,148)  1,833 
Of which:
Attributable to Shell plc shareholders  (1,196)  (3,029)  1,759 
Attributable to non-controlling interest  (116)  (119)  74 
CCS earnings  41,562  17,482  (19,701) 
Of which:
CCS earnings attributable to Shell plc shareholders  41,113  17,072  (19,921) 
CCS earnings attributable to non-controlling interest  449  410  220 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
268 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
268
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

8. Segment information continued
Information by geographical area is as follows:
 2022
 
$ million
Europe
Asia,
Oceania,
Africa USA
Other
Americas Total
Third-party revenue, by origin  135,975 [A]  126,643  87,085  31,611  381,314 
Goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, joint 
ventures and associates at December 31  40,161 [B]  97,019  59,233  51,794  248,207 
[A] Includes $50,236 million that originated from the UK.
[B] Includes $20,772 million located in the UK.
 2021
 
$ million
Europe
Asia,
Oceania,
Africa USA
Other
Americas Total
Third-party revenue, by origin  78,549 [A]  87,070  73,647  22,238  261,504 
Goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, joint 
ventures and associates at December 31  38,881 [B]  97,278  58,286  48,595  243,040 
[A] Includes $21,846 million that originated from the UK.
[B] Includes $21,974 million located in the UK.
 2020
 
$ million
Europe
Asia,
Oceania,
Africa USA
Other
Americas Total
Third-party revenue, by origin  50,138 [A]  65,139  50,856  14,410  180,543 
Goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, joint 
ventures and associates at December 31  38,785 [B]  103,191  62,976  49,909  254,861 
[A] Includes $12,958 million that originated from the UK. 
[B] Includes $23,302 million located in the UK. 
9. Interest and other income
$ million
 2022 2021 2020
Interest income  1,046  511  679 
Dividend income (from investments in equity securities)  216  91  22 
Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets and businesses  642  5,995  286 
Net foreign exchange (losses)/gains on financing activities  (340)  118  (391) 
Other  (649)  341  273 
Total  915  7,056  869 
In 2022, "Other" includes the full write-down of the Nord Stream 2 loan amounting to $1,126 million. (See Note 6). The remaining income 
in "Other" mainly relates to amounts recognised in respect of sublease income from partners in joint operations (2022: $319 million, 2021:
$313 million, 2020: $426 million).
In 2021, "Net gains on sale of non-current assets and businesses" arose mainly in respect of gains on the sale of Integrated Gas assets in Australia 
and Norway, and Upstream assets in the USA and Nigeria.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
269 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
269
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

10. Interest expense
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Interest incurred and similar charges  1,971  2,086  2,174 
Interest expense related to leases  1,724  1,987  2,185 
Less: interest capitalised  (950)  (917)  (799) 
Other net (gains)/losses on fair value and cash flow hedges of debt  (71)  1  32 
Accretion expense  507  450  497 
Total  3,181  3,607  4,089 
The rate applied in determining the amount of interest capitalised in 2022 was 4.0% (2021: 4.0%; 2020: 4.5%).
11. Goodwill and other intangible assets
 2022
 
$ million
Other intangible assets
Goodwill
LNG off-take
and sales 
contracts
Environmental 
certificates Other Total
Cost
At January 1  16,117  9,833  2,747  6,679  19,259 
Additions  1,954  —  2,338  1,263  3,601 
Sales, retirements and other movements [A]  (351)  —  (2,749)  459 [C]  (2,290) 
Currency translation differences  (163)  —  (135)  (243)  (378) 
At December 31  17,557  9,833  2,201  8,158  20,192 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments
At January 1  1,197  5,267  4,219  9,486 
Charge for the year [B]  360  793  532  1,325 
Sales, retirements and other movements [A]  —  —  (137)  (137) 
Currency translation differences  (39)  —  (144)  (144) 
At December 31  1,518  6,060  4,470  10,530 
Carrying amount at December 31  16,039  3,773  2,201  3,688 [D]  9,662 
[A] Includes the reclassification to assets classified as held for sale. (See Note 18).
[B] Includes impairments as presented in Note 12.
[C] Includes the reclassification from goodwill following the completion of a purchase price allocation in Renewables and Energy Solutions. 
[D] Includes other intangible assets from acquisitions, power purchase agreements, retail customer relationships, trademarks and $583 million related to software.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
270 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
270
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

11. Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
 2021
 
$ million
Other intangible assets
Goodwill
LNG off-take
and sales 
contracts
Environmental 
certificates Other Total
Cost
At January 1  15,101  10,030  1,013  6,914  17,957 
Additions  1,546  —  3,147  527  3,674 
Sales, retirements and other movements [A]  (464)  (197)  (1,371)  (607)  (2,175) 
Currency translation differences  (66)  —  (42)  (155)  (197) 
At December 31  16,117  9,833  2,747  6,679  19,259 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments
At January 1  1,062  4,668  4,618  9,286 
Charge for the year [B]  167  796  368  1,164 
Sales, retirements and other movements [A]  (23)  (197)  (670)  (867) 
Currency translation differences  (9)  –  (97)  (97) 
At December 31  1,197  5,267  4,219  9,486 
Carrying amount at December 31  14,920  4,566  2,747  2,460 [C]  9,773 
[A] Includes the reclassification to assets classified as held for sale. (See Note 18).
[B] Includes impairment as presented in Note 12.
[C] Includes $456 million related to software.
Goodwill at December 31, 2022, related principally to the acquisition of BG Group plc in 2016, allocated to Integrated Gas ($4,945 million) 
and Upstream ($5,294 million) at the operating segment level, and to Pennzoil-Quaker State Company ($1,714 million), a lubricants business 
in the Chemicals and Products segment based largely in North America. 
Additions to goodwill in 2022 mainly related to goodwill recognised from acquisitions in Marketing ($1,178 million) and Renewables and Energy 
Solutions ($775 million). 
12. Property, plant and equipment
 2022 [A]
 
$ million
Exploration and production
Exploration
and evaluation Production
Manufacturing,
supply and
distribution Other Total
Cost
At January 1  12,679  285,903  104,182  34,005  436,769 
Additions  1,564  11,954  6,928  7,808  28,254 
Sales, retirements and other movements [B]  (2,469)  (14,541)  (2,548)  (242)  (19,800) 
Currency translation differences  (209)  (6,300)  (1,777)  (1,976)  (10,262) 
At December 31  11,565  277,016  106,785  39,595  434,961 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments
At January 1  5,580  167,530  55,131  13,596  241,837 
Charge for the year [C]  397  9,709  5,149  2,055  17,310 
Sales, retirements and other movements [B]  (765)  (13,207)  (2,054)  (396)  (16,422) 
Currency translation differences  (50)  (4,370)  (1,325)  (661)  (6,406) 
At December 31  5,162  159,662  56,901  14,594  236,319 
Carrying amount at December 31  6,403  117,354  49,884  25,001  198,642 
[A] Includes right-of-use assets under leases. (See Note 21).
[B] Includes the reclassification to assets classified as held for sale. (See Note 18).
[C] Includes $6,177 million relating to impairment reversals mainly in Integrated Gas and Upstream (see table 'Impairments' below).
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
271 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
271
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

12. Property, plant and equipment continued
 2021 [A] 
 
$ million
Exploration and production
Exploration
and evaluation Production
Manufacturing,
supply and
distribution Other Total
Cost
At January 1  14,484  298,882  107,876  32,402  453,644 
Additions  1,216  8,942  7,917  3,644  21,719 
Sales, retirements and other movements [B]  (3,014)  (20,005)  (9,607)  (455)  (33,081) 
Currency translation differences  (7)  (1,916)  (2,004)  (1,586)  (5,513) 
At December 31  12,679  285,903  104,182  34,005  436,769 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments
At January 1  5,258  167,711  58,242  12,733  243,944 
Charge for the year  1,311  15,800  7,112  1,770  25,993 
Sales, retirements and other movements [B]  (999)  (14,590)  (8,624)  (240)  (24,453) 
Currency translation differences  10  (1,391)  (1,599)  (667)  (3,647) 
At December 31  5,580  167,530  55,131  13,596  241,837 
Carrying amount at December 31  7,099  118,373  49,051  20,409  194,932 
[A] Includes right-of-use assets under leases. (See Note 21).
[B] Includes the reclassification to assets classified as held for sale. (See Note 18).
Additions in 2022 included an acquisition of an interest in an oil field in South America within Upstream, an acquisition of a renewable 
energy platform in Asia within Renewables and Energy Solutions and an acquisition of certain fuel and convenience retail sites in North 
America within Marketing.
The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2022, included $27,277 million (2021: $37,006 million) of assets 
under construction. This amount excludes exploration and evaluation assets.
The carrying amount of exploration and production assets at December 31, 2022, included rights and concessions in respect of proved and 
unproved properties of $7,662 million (2021: $8,849 million). Exploration and evaluation assets principally comprise rights and concessions 
in respect of unproved properties and capitalised exploration drilling costs.
Approaches applied to determine an alternative reserves base for the purpose of calculating depreciation include management's expectations 
of the future oil and gas prices rather than yearly average prices and using total proved reserves to provide a phasing of periodic depreciation 
charges that more appropriately reflects the expected utilisation of the assets concerned. (See Note 2) 
At December 31, 2022, there were no assets for which management's expectations of the future oil and gas prices were applied rather than yearly 
average prices (carrying amount of such assets at December 31, 2021: $1,634 million). If no alternative reserves base had been used for those 
assets, the pre-tax depreciation charge for the years ended December 31, 2021, and December 31, 2020, would have been respectively 
$1,184 million and $1,012 million higher. 
The carrying amount of assets at December 31, 2022, for which total proved reserves were applied rather than total proved developed reserves 
for the calculation of depreciation, was $26,129 million (2021: $17,462 million). If no alternative reserves base had been used for those assets, 
the pre-tax depreciation charge for the year ended December 31, 2022, would have been $792 million higher (2021: $1,168 million, 2020: 
$2,476 million).
Contractual commitments for the purchase and lease of property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2022, amounted to $6,693 million 
(2021: $5,984 million).
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
272 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
272
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

12. Property, plant and equipment continued
 Impairments
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Impairment losses
Exploration and production  868  1,533  20,155 
Manufacturing, supply and distribution  474  2,340  6,490 
Other  457  21  31 
Total [A]  1,799  3,894  26,676 
Impairment reversals
Exploration and production  5,954  213  — 
Manufacturing, supply and distribution  72  —  — 
Other  151  1  — 
Total [A]  6,177  214  — 
[A] See Note 8.
Impairment losses in 2022 mainly related to the withdrawal from Russia ($854 million, see Note 6), the classification of an Upstream asset as 
held for sale ($320 million) and an impairment of capital expenditure additions in fully impaired sites in Chemicals and Products ($257 million). 
The recognition of impairment reversals in 2022 resulted from the reversals of impairment losses recognised previously. These were mainly 
triggered by the revision of Shell's mid- and long-term commodity price assumptions reflecting the current energy market demand and supply 
fundamentals. They are related to: i) Integrated Gas for $3,449 million, mainly relating to the Queensland Curtis LNG asset; and ii) Upstream 
for $2,504 million, mainly related to two offshore projects in Brazil and an asset in the US Gulf of Mexico. 
Impairment losses in 2021 were predominantly triggered by the reclassifications to assets held for sale, or portfolio developments. They were 
mainly related to three refineries in the USA within Chemicals and Products impaired on classification as held for sale ($1,537 million), and 
exploration and evaluation assets both within Integrated Gas ($600 million) and Upstream ($373 million). 
Impairment losses in 2020 were mainly triggered by Shell's revision of the mid- and long-term commodity price and refining margin outlook 
reflecting the expected effects of the macroeconomic environment and the COVID-19 pandemic as well as energy market demand and supply 
fundamentals. The impairment losses for exploration and production assets related primarily to Integrated Gas ($11,539 million), including 
the Queensland Curtis LNG and Prelude floating LNG operations, and Upstream ($8,629 million), including assets in the Gulf of Mexico, 
unconventional assets in North America, offshore assets in Brazil and Europe and a project in Nigeria (OPL 245). The impairment losses 
for manufacturing, supply and distribution related primarily to Chemicals and Products ($6,493 million), including assets in Europe and the 
shutdown of the Convent oil products manufacturing facility in the USA. 
For impairment testing purposes, the respective carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets were compared with 
their value in use. Cash flow projections used in the determination of value in use were made using management’s forecasts of commodity prices, 
market supply and demand, potential costs associated with operational GHG emissions, product margins including forecast refining margins 
and expected production volumes (see Note 2).
The discount rate is based on a nominal post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 5% (2021: 5%) for Power activities and a nominal 
post-tax WACC of 6.5% (2021: 6.5%) for all other businesses. Prior to 2021 the rate used by Shell was 6% for all activities and was based on a 
pre-tax discount rate reflecting the marginal cost of debt, current market assessments of the time value of money and residual risk. The change in 
2021 in the discount rate to a nominal post-tax WACC has been reflected in a commensurate manner in the risk adjustments to post-tax cash flow 
projections. The impact of the change in the 2021 impairment valuation technique was not material compared with the previous impairment 
valuation technique. The pre-tax discount rate used for goodwill testing ranged between 5-12% (2021: 7-11%), see Note 11. 
Oil and gas price assumptions applied for impairment testing are reviewed and, where necessary, adjusted on a periodic basis. Reviews include 
comparison with available market data and forecasts that reflect developments in demand such as global economic growth, technology efficiency, 
policy measures and, in supply, consideration of investment and resource potential, cost of development of new supply, and behaviour of major 
resource holders. The near-term commodity price assumptions applied in impairment testing in 2022 were as follows:
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
273 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
273
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

12. Property, plant and equipment continued
 Commodity price assumptions [A]
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
Brent crude oil ($/b)  80  70  70  71 
Henry Hub natural gas ($/MMBtu)  4.00  3.50  3.50  3.98 
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Brent crude oil ($/b)  60  60  60  63 
Henry Hub natural gas ($/MMBtu)  2.75  2.75  2.75  3.00 
[A] Money of the day.
For periods after 2026, the real-terms price assumptions applied were: $65 per barrel (/b) (2021: $60/b) for Brent crude oil, $4.00 per million 
British thermal units (/MMBtu) (2021: $3.00/MMBtu) for Henry Hub natural gas. 
The main sensitivities in relation to impairment are the commodity price assumptions in Integrated Gas and Upstream, refining margins in 
Chemicals and Products and discount rates in all segments. A change of -10% or +10% in the commodity price assumptions over the entire 
cash flow projection period would ceteris paribus result in some $2-5 billion impairment or some $2-4 billion impairment reversal, respectively, 
in Integrated Gas and Upstream. Refining margins included in the Operating Plan are at an average of $6.22/bbl. A change of -$1/bbl or
+$1/bbl long-term refining margins over the entire cash flow projection period would ceteris paribus result in some $1-3 billion impairment or
some $1-3 billion impairment reversal, respectively, in Chemicals and Products. A change of +1% in the discount factor would ceteris paribus 
result in some $1-3 billion impairment in Integrated Gas, up to $1 billion impairment in each of the following segments: Upstream, Chemicals 
and Products and Renewables and Energy Solutions, and would have no significant impact on Marketing and Corporate.
 Capitalised exploration drilling costs
$ million
2022 2021 2020
At January 1  3,015  3,654  5,668 
Additions pending determination of proved reserves  1,298  1,024  1,016 
Amounts charged to expense  (881)  (639)  (815) 
Reclassifications to productive wells on determination of proved reserves  (531)  (577)  (1,385) 
Other movements  10  (447)  (830) 
At December 31  2,911  3,015  3,654 
 
Projects Wells
Number $ million Number $ million
Between 1 and 5 years 11  819 24  549 
Between 6 and 10 years 9  797 32  848 
Between 11 and 15 years 1  3 10  210 
Between 16 and 20 years  4  193 11  205 
Total 25  1,812 77  1,812 
Exploration drilling costs capitalised for periods greater than one year at December 31, 2022, analysed according to the most recent year of 
activity, are presented in the table above. These comprise $443 million relating to six projects where drilling activities were under way or firmly 
planned for the future, and $1,369 million relating to 19 projects awaiting development concepts.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
274 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
274
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

13. Joint ventures and associates
 Shell share of comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Joint
ventures Associates Total
[
A
]
Joint
ventures Associates Total
Joint
ventures Associates Total
Income for the period  2,589  1,383 [A]  3,972 
A
]  1,955  2,142  4,097  629  1,154  1,783 
Other comprehensive
income/(loss) for the period  21  —  21  (106)  —  (106)  76  1  77 
Comprehensive income for the 
period  2,610  1,383  3,993  1,849  2,142  3,991  705  1,155  1,860 
[A] Includes an impairment charge of $1,614 million related to Sakhalin-2. (See Note 6).
 Carrying amount of interests in joint ventures and associates
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Joint
ventures Associates Total
Joint
ventures Associates Total
Net assets  17,056  6,808  23,864  15,767  7,648  23,415 
 Transactions with joint ventures and associates
$ million
2022 [A] 2021 [A] 2020
Sales and charges to joint ventures and associates  12,230  8,509  5,426 
Purchases and charges from joint ventures and associates  22,286  13,584  8,262 
[A] Includes 29% (2021: 26%) of sales and 16% (2021: 16%) purchases in transactions with one joint venture operating in the oil trading business.
These transactions principally comprise sales and purchases of goods and services in the ordinary course of business. Related balances 
outstanding at December 31, 2022, and 2021, are presented in Notes 15 and 19.
 Other arrangements in respect of joint ventures and associates
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Commitments to make purchases from joint ventures and associates [A]  1,234  1,437 
Commitments to provide debt or equity funding to joint ventures and associates  567  533 
[A] Commitments to make purchases from joint ventures and associates mainly relate to contracts associated with LNG processing fees and transportation capacity. Shell has other purchase 
obligations related to joint ventures and associates that are not fixed or determinable and are principally intended to be resold in a short period of time through sales agreements with third 
parties. These include long-term LNG and natural gas purchase commitments and commitments to purchase refined products or crude oil at market prices. Shell has stopped all spot purchases 
of Russian crude, LNG, and of cargoes of refined products directly exported from Russia. (See Note 6). 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
275 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
275
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

14. Investments in securities
 Investments in securities
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Equity securities:  1,533  1,710 
Equity securities at fair value through other comprehensive income  1,533  1,710 
Debt securities:  1,829  2,087 
Debt securities at amortised cost  21  4 
Debt securities at fair value through other comprehensive income  1,308  1,306 
Debt securities at fair value through profit or loss  500  777 
Total  3,362  3,797 
At fair value
Measured by reference to prices in active markets for identical assets  1,884  1,909 
Measured by reference to other observable inputs  158  177 
Measured using predominantly unobservable inputs  1,299  1,707 
Total  3,341  3,793 
At cost  21  4 
Total  3,362  3,797 
As at December 31, 2022, investments included equity securities comprising interests in which Shell has no significant influence, debt securities 
principally comprising a portfolio required to be held by the Company’s internal insurance entities as security for their activities, and assets held 
in escrow in relation to the Group's UK pension arrangements.
 Investments in securities measured using predominantly unobservable inputs [A]
$ million
2022 2021
At January 1  1,707  1,505 
(Losses)/gains recognised in other comprehensive income  (206)  44 
Purchases  142  299 
Sales  (37)  (17) 
Other movements  (307)  (124) 
At December 31  1,299  1,707 
[A] Based on expected dividend flows, adjusted for country and other risks as appropriate and discounted to their present value. 
"Other movements" in 2022 includes a reclassification to property, plant and equipment, as a result of obtaining title to assets in a project in Asia.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
276 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
276
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

15. Trade and other receivables
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Trade receivables  39,334  —  34,717  — 
Lease receivables  206  1,090  228  1,285 
Other receivables  9,737  3,247  8,240  3,761 
Amounts due from joint ventures and associates  2,722  423  1,048  499 
Prepayments and deferred charges  14,511  2,160  8,975  1,520 
Total  66,510  6,920  53,208  7,065 
The fair value of financial assets included above approximates the carrying amount and was determined from predominantly unobservable inputs. 
Other receivables at December 31, 2022, include receivables from certain governments in their capacity as joint arrangement partners of 
$717 million (2021: $1,225 million), after provisions for impairments, that are overdue in part or in full. Recoverability and timing thereof are 
subject to uncertainty, however, the ultimate risk of default on the carrying amount is considered to be low. Other receivables at December 31, 
2022, also included current income tax receivables of $363 million (2021: $550 million) and non-current income tax receivables of $469 million 
(2021: $366 million).
Provisions for impairments deducted from trade and other receivables amounted to $1,510 million at December 31, 2022 (2021: $1,497 million).
Allowance for expected credit losses - trade receivables
Shell uses a provision matrix to calculate expected credit losses (ECLs) for trade receivables. The provision matrix is initially based on Shell’s 
historical observed default rates. Shell calculates the ECL to adjust the historical credit loss experienced with forward-looking information.
The ECL at December 31, 2022, is $214 million (2021: $155 million), which represents 0.45-0.54% (2021: 0.45-0.51%) of all trade receivables. 
A loss allowance provision of $841 million (2021: $876 million) was established, in addition to all other impairments to trade receivables
as at December 31, 2022, that are outside of the provision matrix calculations. 
 Lease receivables
Lease contracts where Shell is the lessor are classified as finance leases or operating leases. Receivables for lease contracts classified as finance 
leases are as follows:
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Less than one year  257  278 
Between 1 and 5 years  792  852 
5 years and later  532  715 
Total undiscounted lease payments receivable  1,581  1,845 
Unearned finance income  270  339 
Net investment in leases  1,311  1,506 
In addition, at December 31, 2022, Shell is entitled to future contractual payments under operating leases of $389 million (2021: $431 million).
16. Inventories
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Oil, gas and chemicals  27,823  22,145 
Environmental certificates  2,557  1,727 
Materials  1,514  1,386 
Total  31,894  25,258 
Inventories at December 31, 2022, include write-downs to net realisable value of $2,705 million (2021: $592 million).
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
277 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
277
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

17. Cash and cash equivalents
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Cash  6,608  5,849 
Short-term bank deposits  5,147  4,416 
Money market funds, reverse repos and other cash equivalents  28,491  26,705 
Total  40,246  36,970 
In 2022, cash continued to be invested with an emphasis on capital preservation. Information about credit risk is presented in Note 25. Included 
in cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2022, were amounts totalling $156 million (2021: $113 million) subject to currency controls or other 
legal restrictions.
18. Assets held for sale
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total
Intangible assets  —  —  —  —  116  116 
Property, plant and equipment  —  2,526  2,526  —  896  896 
Joint ventures and associates  — 94 94  —  —  — 
Investments in securities  — 128 128  —  —  — 
Trade and other receivables  44  51  95  349  71  420 
Inventories  8  —  8  528  —  528 
Assets classified as held for sale  52  2,799  2,851  877  1,083  1,960 
Debt  3  1  4  257  199  456 
Trade and other payables  256  22  278  235  140  375 
Deferred tax  —  —  —  —  41  41 
Retirement benefits  —  —  —  —  108  108 
Decommissioning and other provisions  134  971  1,105  10  219  229 
Income taxes payable  8  —  8  44  —  44 
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale  401  994  1,395  546  707  1,253 
At December 31, 2022, assets held for sale mainly related to three Upstream projects. All transactions that resulted in the reclassification of assets 
held for sale at December 31, 2022, are expected to be completed in 2023. 
In 2022, Shell ceased to classify one asset within Chemicals and Products as held for sale as it no longer met the assets-held-for-sale criteria. All 
other assets classified as held for sale at December 31, 2021, were sold in 2022. 
19. Trade and other payables
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Trade payables  42,632  —  34,136  — 
Other payables [A]  10,059  3,148  9,617  1,675 
Sales taxes, excise duties and similar levies  3,270  —  3,522  — 
Amounts due to joint ventures and associates  8,441  31  4,793  36 
Accruals and deferred income  14,955  253  11,105  364 
Total  79,357  3,432  63,173  2,075 
[A] Includes obligations under environmental compliance schemes of $4,710 million as at December 31, 2022 (2021: $4,016 million). (See Note 5).
The fair value of financial liabilities included above approximates the carrying amount and was determined from predominantly
unobservable inputs.
Other payables include amounts due to joint arrangement partners and in respect of other project-related items.
Information about offsetting, collateral and liquidity risk is presented in Note 25.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
278 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
278
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

20. Debt
 Debt
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Debt 
(excluding
lease liabilities)
Lease
liabilities [A] Total
Debt 
(excluding
lease liabilities)
Lease
liabilities [A] Total
Current debt:  4,620  4,381  9,001  4,080  4,138  8,218 
Short-term debt  1,026  —  1,026  515  —  515 
Long-term debt due within 1 year  3,594  4,381  7,975  3,565  4,138  7,703 
Non-current debt  51,532  23,262  74,794  57,499  23,369  80,868 
Total  56,152  27,643  83,795  61,579  27,507  89,086 
[A] Further analysis of lease liabilities is provided in Note 21.
 Net debt
 
$ million
(Asset)/liability
Current
debt
Non-current
debt
Derivative
financial
instruments
Cash and cash 
equivalents
(see Note 17) Net debt
At January 1, 2022  8,218  80,868  440  (36,970)  52,556 
Cash flow  (7,618)  (254)  (1,799)  (4,012)  (13,683) 
Lease additions [A]  1,111  4,077  5,188 
Other movements  7,560  (7,883)  1,393  —  1,070 
Currency translation differences and foreign exchange (gains)/losses  (270)  (2,014)  1,254  736  (294) 
At December 31, 2022  9,001  74,794  1,288  (40,246)  44,837 
At January 1, 2021  16,899  91,115  (798)  (31,830)  75,386 
Cash flow  (17,887)  (1,842) [B]  (1,165)  (5,679)  (26,573) 
Lease additions [A]  899  2,889  3,788 
Other movements  8,655  (9,034)  688  —  309 
Currency translation differences and foreign exchange (gains)/losses  (348)  (2,260)  1,715  539  (354) 
At December 31, 2021  8,218  80,868  440  (36,970)  52,556 
[A] Further analysis of lease liabilities is provided in Note 21.
[B] Includes $3,500 million of early repayment of non-current debt.
 Borrowing facilities and amounts undrawn
$ million
Facility Amount undrawn
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021 Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
CP programmes  20,000  20,000  20,000  20,000 
EMTN programme unlimited unlimited N/A N/A
US shelf registration unlimited unlimited N/A N/A
Committed credit facilities  9,920  9,920  9,920  9,920 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
279 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
279
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

20. Debt continued
Shell has access to international debt capital markets via two commercial paper (CP) programmes, a Euro medium-term note (EMTN) programme 
and a US universal shelf (US shelf) registration. Issuances under the CP programmes are supported by a committed credit facility and cash. 
Under the CP programmes, Shell can issue debt of up to $10,000 million with maximum maturities ranging between 183 days and 364 days 
depending on the form of the notes issued; and $10,000 million with maturities not exceeding 397 days.
The EMTN programme is updated each year, most recently in September 2022. During 2022, no debt was issued under this programme
(2021: no debt issued).
The US shelf registration provides Shell with the flexibility to issue debt securities, ordinary shares, preferred shares and warrants. 
The registration is updated every three years and was last updated in March 2021. During 2022, no debt was issued under the US shelf 
registration (2021: $1,500 million).
On December 13, 2019, Shell refinanced its revolving credit facilities (RCF), which are linked to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), at 
pre-agreed margins. In December 2022, Shell renewed the short-dated tranche of the facility of $1,920 million to expire in 2023 (2021: expiring 
in 2022) with two further one year bank extension options, that would take final maturity to 2025. The additional RCF tranches are: $320 million 
expiring in 2025 (2021: expiring in 2025) and $7,680 million expiring in 2026 (2021: expiring in 2026), a total RCF of $9,920 million. The terms 
and availability are not conditional on Shell’s financial ratios nor its financial credit ratings. The interest and fees paid on these facilities are linked 
to Shell’s progress towards reaching its short-term Net Carbon Footprint intensity target.
The following tables compare contractual cash flows for debt excluding lease liabilities at December 31 with the carrying amount in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Contractual amounts reflect the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates; differences from carrying amounts 
reflect the effects of discounting, premiums and, where fair value hedge accounting is applied, fair value adjustments. Interest is estimated 
assuming interest rates applicable to variable-rate debt remain constant and there is no change in aggregate principal amounts of debt other
than repayment at scheduled maturity, as reflected in the table.
 2022
 
$ million
Contractual payments
Less than
1 year
Between
1 and 2
years
Between
2 and 3 
years
Between
3 and 4
years
Between
4 and 5
years
5 years
and later Total
Difference
from carrying
amount
Carrying
amount
Bonds  3,365  4,184  6,054  3,817  2,400  35,005  54,825  (1,210)  53,615 
Bank and other borrowings  1,229  335  64  156  63  704  2,551  (14)  2,537 
Total (excluding interest)  4,594  4,519  6,118  3,973  2,463  35,709  57,376  (1,224)  56,152 
Interest  1,669  1,574  1,463  1,314  1,233  14,757  22,010 
 2021
 
$ million
Contractual payments
Less than
1 year
Between
1 and 2
years
Between
2 and 3 
years
Between
3 and 4
years
Between
4 and 5
years
5 years
and later Total
Difference
from carrying
amount
Carrying
amount
Bonds  3,423  3,376  4,362  6,310  3,882  38,327  59,680  578  60,258 
Bank and other borrowings  646  452  36  9  143  35  1,321  —  1,321 
Total (excluding interest)  4,069  3,828  4,398  6,319  4,025  38,362  61,001  578  61,579 
Interest  1,637  1,587  1,524  1,416  1,268  15,642  23,074 
Interest rate swaps have been entered into against certain fixed rate debt affecting the effective interest rate on these balances (see Note 25).
The fair value of debt excluding lease liabilities at December 31, 2022, was $51,959 million (2021: $67,066 million), mainly determined from
the prices quoted for those securities. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
280 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
280
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

21. Leases
Shell has lease contracts in Integrated Gas and Upstream, principally for floating production storage and offloading units, subsea equipment, 
drilling and ancillary equipment, service vessels, LNG vessels and land and buildings; in Marketing, principally for land and retail sites; in 
Chemicals and Products, principally for plant pipeline and machinery, tankers and storage capacity; in Renewables and Energy Solutions, 
principally for power generation, storage capacity and land; and in Corporate, principally for land and buildings. Shell’s obligations under 
its leases are secured on the leased assets.
Right-of-use assets
Right-of-use assets are included in property, plant and equipment for the following amounts:
 2022
 
$ million
Exploration and production Manufacturing,
supply and
distribution
Exploration
and evaluation Production Other [B] Total
Cost
At January 1  5  14,322  15,748  8,031  38,106 
Additions  —  1,088  2,305  2,111  5,504 
Sales, retirements and other movements [A]  (5)  (569)  (1,530)  319  (1,785) 
Currency translation differences  —  (166)  (60)  (562)  (788) 
At December 31  —  14,675  16,463  9,899  41,037 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments
At January 1  —  7,935  5,946  2,273  16,154 
Charge for the year  —  1,182  2,223  797  4,202 
Sales, retirements and other movements [A]  —  (751)  (1,444)  23  (2,172) 
Currency translation differences  —  (91)  (30)  (143)  (264) 
At December 31  —  8,275  6,695  2,950  17,920 
Carrying amount at December 31  —  6,400  9,768  6,949  23,117 
[A] Includes the reclassification of right-of-use assets to assets held for sale. (See Note 18).
[B] "Other" mainly includes lease contracts for retail sites, land and buildings in Marketing, Renewables and Energy Solutions and Corporate.
 2021
 
$ million
Exploration and production Manufacturing,
supply and
distribution
Exploration 
and evaluation Production Other [A] Total
Cost
At January 1  5  14,440  14,526  7,384  36,355 
Additions  —  311  2,149  1,420  3,880 
Sales, retirements and other movements  —  (365)  (868)  (259)  (1,492) 
Currency translation differences  —  (64)  (59)  (514)  (637) 
At December 31  5  14,322  15,748  8,031  38,106 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation, including impairments
At January 1  —  6,997  5,013  1,793  13,803 
Charge for the year  —  1,373  2,060  783  4,216 
Sales, retirements and other movements  —  (400)  (1,093)  (157)  (1,650) 
Currency translation differences  —  (35)  (34)  (146)  (215) 
At December 31  —  7,935  5,946  2,273  16,154 
Carrying amount at December 31  5  6,387  9,802  5,758  21,952 
[A] Includes the reclassification of right-of-use assets to assets held for sale. (See Note 18).
[B] "Other" mainly includes lease contracts for retail sites, land and buildings in Marketing, Renewables and Energy Solutions and Corporate.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
281 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
281
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

21. Leases continued
Lease arrangements 
Lease liabilities are secured on the leased assets. 
Shell also has certain lease contracts of items with lease terms of 12 months or less. For these lease contracts, Shell applies the "short-term lease" 
recognition exemption. Lease expenses not included in the measurement of lease liability are:
 Lease expenses not included in the measurement of lease liability
$ million
2022 2021
Expense relating to short-term leases  552  644 
Expense relating to variable lease payments  1,251  1,172 
The total cash outflow in respect of leases representing repayment of principal and payment of interest in 2022 was $6,280 million 
(2021: $6,777 million), recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows within Cash flows from financing activities.
The future lease payments under lease contracts and the carrying amounts at December 31, by payment date are as follows:
 2022
 
$ million
Contractual 
lease 
payments Interest
Lease
liabilities
Less than 1 year  5,914  1,533  4,381 
Between 1 and 5 years  15,624  4,655  10,969 
5 years and later  17,935  5,642  12,293 
Total  39,473 [A]  11,830  27,643 
[A] Future cash outflows in respect of leases may differ from lease liabilities recognised due to future decisions that may be taken by Shell in respect of the use of leased assets. These decisions 
may result in variable lease payments being made. In addition, Shell may reconsider whether it will exercise extension options or termination options, where future reconsideration is not 
reflected in the lease liabilities. There is no exposure to these potential additional payments in excess of the recognised lease liabilities until these decisions have been taken by Shell.
 2021
$ million
Contractual 
lease 
payments Interest
Lease
liabilities
Less than 1 year  5,805  1,667  4,138 
Between 1 and 5 years  15,889  4,972  10,917 
5 years and later  18,309  5,857  12,452 
Total  40,003  12,496  27,507 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
282 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
282
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

22. Taxation
 Taxation charge
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Current tax:
Charge in respect of current period  16,383  7,254  3,272 
Adjustments in respect of prior periods  (947)  (719)  (56) 
Total  15,436  6,535  3,216 
Deferred tax:
Relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences, tax losses and credits  5,196  2,971  (9,063) 
Relating to changes in tax rates and legislation  785  10  (16) 
Adjustments in respect of prior periods  524  (317)  430 
Total  6,505  2,664  (8,649) 
Total taxation charge/(credit)  21,941  9,199  (5,433) 
Adjustments in respect of prior periods relate to events in the current period and reflect the effects of changes in rules, facts or other factors 
compared with those used in establishing the current tax position or deferred tax balance in prior periods. In 2022, this included a release
of a tax provision in Nigeria of $543 million (2021: $628 million).
Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates and legislation principally relate to the introduction of the UK Energy Profits Levy Act 2022 (EPL)
on July 14, 2022.
Current tax charge in respect of current period includes the European Union (EU) "Council Regulation on an emergency intervention to address 
high energy prices" (EU solidarity contribution). This resulted in a charge of $528 million recognised in the taxation charge and $940 million 
recognised in the Shell share of comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates (see Note 13).
On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) was enacted in the USA. As from 2023, under the IRA a Corporate Minimum Tax
on Book Earnings (BMT) applies a 15% tax on adjusted financial statement income. The enactment of the IRA had no impact in 2022.
 Reconciliation of applicable tax charge at statutory tax rates to taxation charge
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Income/(loss) before taxation  64,815  29,829  (26,967) 
Less: share of profit of joint ventures and associates  (3,972)  (4,097)  (1,783) 
Income/(loss) before taxation and share of profit of joint ventures and associates  60,843  25,732  (28,750) 
Applicable tax charge/(credit) at standard statutory tax rates  22,170  10,097  (8,330) 
Adjustments in respect of prior periods  (424)  (1,036)  374 
Tax effects of:
Incentives for investment and development  (1,388)  (467)  (557) 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes  849  893  1,239 
Changes in tax rates and legislation  785  10  (16) 
(Recognition)/derecognition of deferred tax assets  (457)  (113)  1,458 
Income not subject to tax at standard statutory rates  234  90  6 
Exchange rate differences  (102)  53  339 
Disposals  39  (328)  (34) 
Other reconciling items  235  —  88 
Taxation charge/(credit)  21,941  9,199  (5,433) 
 Tax rates
2022 2021 2020
Weighted average of statutory tax rates  3 6  %  3 9  %  2 9  %
Effective tax rate based on income before taxation  3 4  %  3 1  %  2 0  %
Effective tax rate based on Income before taxation excluding share of profit of joint ventures and associates  3 6  %  3 6  %  1 9  %
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
283 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
283
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

22. Taxation continued
Compared with 2021, the decrease in the weighted average of statutory tax rates reflects a lower proportion of earnings in the Upstream segment 
subject to relatively higher tax rates. 
 2022 – Deferred tax
 
$ million
Deferred tax asset
Decommissioning
and other
provisions
Property,
plant and
equipment
Tax losses
and credits 
carried 
forward
Retirement 
benefits Other Total
At January 1, 2022  6,562  4,993  10,518  2,744  4,545  29,362 
(Charge)/credit to income  (217)  (1,261)  (3,434)  (66)  160  (4,818) 
Currency translation differences  (303)  (63)  (426)  (40)  (109)  (941) 
Other comprehensive income  —  —  18  (618)  70  (530) 
Other  7  621  (230)  (43)  161  516 
At December 31, 2022  6,049  4,290  6,446  1,977  4,827  23,589 
Deferred tax liability
At January 1, 2022  (23,144)  (2,736)  (3,603)  (29,483) 
(Charge)/credit to income  (1,503)  93  (277)  (1,687) 
Currency translation differences  380  287  170  837 
Other comprehensive income  4  (870)  18  (848) 
Other  (555)  37  (261)  (779) 
At December 31, 2022  (24,818)  (3,189)  (3,953)  (31,960) 
Net deferred tax liability at December 31, 2022  (8,371) 
Deferred tax asset/liability as presented in the balance sheet 
at December 31, 2022
Deferred tax asset  7,815 
Deferred tax liability  (16,186) 
 2021 – Deferred tax
$ million
Deferred tax asset
Decommissioning
and other
provisions
Property,
plant and
equipment
Tax losses
and credits 
carried 
forward
Retirement 
benefits Other Total
At January 1, 2021  6,567  5,232  12,496  3,774  5,084  33,153 
(Charge)/credit to income  63  (163)  (1,669)  (537)  (395)  (2,701) 
Currency translation differences  (64)  (75)  (252)  (72)  (46)  (509) 
Other comprehensive income  (3)  —  64  (435)  (74)  (448) 
Other  (1)  (1)  (121)  14  (24)  (133) 
At December 31, 2021  6,562  4,993  10,518  2,744  4,545  29,362 
Deferred tax liability
At January 1, 2021  (23,801)  (673)  (2,831)  (27,305) 
Credit/(charge) to income  566  319  (848)  37 
Currency translation differences  71  114  48  233 
Other comprehensive income  (18)  (2,481)  4  (2,495) 
Other  38  (15)  24  47 
At December 31, 2021  (23,144)  (2,736)  (3,603)  (29,483) 
Net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2021  (121) 
Deferred tax asset/liability as presented in the balance sheet 
at December 31, 2021
Deferred tax asset  12,426 
Deferred tax liability  (12,547) 
The presentation in the balance sheet takes into consideration the offsetting of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities within the same tax 
jurisdiction, where this is permitted. The overall deferred tax position in a particular tax jurisdiction determines if a deferred tax balance related to 
that jurisdiction is presented within deferred tax assets or deferred tax liabilities.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
284 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
284
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

22. Taxation continued
Other movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities principally related to acquisitions, sales of non-current assets and businesses.
The deferred tax category "Other" primarily includes deferred tax positions in respect of leases, financial assets and liabilities, inventories, 
intangible assets other goodwill and investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
The deferred tax category "Plant, property and equipment" includes deferred tax positions in respect of tangible fixed assets and investments 
in partnerships in the USA which are considered pass-through entities by its parent for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets of $7,815 million (2021: $12,426 million) are recognised only to the extent it is considered probable that those assets will 
be recoverable. This involves an assessment of when those assets are likely to be recovered, and a judgement as to whether or not there will 
be sufficient taxable profits available to offset the assets. It is considered probable based on business forecasts that such taxable profits will be 
available. For Marketing as well as Chemicals and Products, additional judgement is required; in some jurisdictions the assessment of forecasted 
taxable profits resulting in deferred tax asset recognition of $382 million (2021: $854 million) extends for an additional 10 years beyond Shell’s 
regular 10-year planning horizon. In those situations, additional risking has been applied to the forecast of taxable profits. For Integrated Gas and 
Upstream, deferred tax assets recognised are expected to be recovered within the period of production of each asset. For deferred tax assets of 
$303 million (2021: $711 million) as at December 31, 2022, this period extends beyond 10 years. 
The amount of deferred tax assets which are dependent on future taxable profits not arising from the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, 
and which relate to tax jurisdictions where Shell has suffered a loss in the current or preceding year, was $4,202 million at December 31, 2022 
(2021: $10,195 million). The decrease compared with 2021 is primarily attributable to the utilisation of deferred tax assets in 2022 and a higher 
number of entities which have generated profit in both the current and preceding year.
Unrecognised taxable temporary differences associated with undistributed retained earnings of investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates amounted to $5,521 million at December 31, 2022 (2021: $5,680 million). These retained earnings are subject to withholding tax 
upon distribution.
Unrecognised deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and credits carried forward amounted to $32,491 million at December 31, 
2022 (2021: $37,410 million), including amounts of $28,199 million (2021: $31,349 million) that are subject to time limits for utilisation of five 
years or later, or are not time limited. 
Furthermore, there are unrecognised losses for Petroleum Resource Rent Tax (PRRT) in Australia which due to the annual augmentation increased 
to $43,832 million as at the end of the most recent PRRT fiscal year, June 30, 2022 (June 30, 2021: $42,511 million).
23. Retirement benefits 
Retirement benefits are provided in most of the countries where Shell has operational activities. Shell offers these benefits through funded 
and unfunded defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans. The most significant pension plans are in the Netherlands, UK and USA. 
Other post-employment benefits (OPEB) comprising retirement health care and life insurance are also provided in certain countries. The most 
significant OPEB plan is in the USA.
 Financial position
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Obligations  (73,481)  (107,336) 
Plan assets  76,756  104,495 
Asset ceilings  (371)  (13) 
 Surplus/(deficit)  2,904  (2,854) 
Retirement benefits in the Consolidated Balance Sheet:
Non-current assets  10,200  8,471 
Non-current liabilities:  (7,296)  (11,325) 
Non-current liabilities - Pensions  (4,417)  (6,458) 
Non-current liabilities - OPEB  (2,879)  (4,867) 
Total  2,904  (2,854) 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
285 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
285
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

23. Retirement benefits continued
 Retirement benefit expense
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Defined benefit plans:
Current service cost, net of plan participants’ contributions  1,100  1,385  1,359 
Interest expense on defined pension benefit obligations  1,584  1,223  1,683 
Interest income on plan assets  (1,732)  (1,160)  (1,657) 
Interest expense on OPEB obligations  120  128  145 
Current OPEB service cost  57  60  72 
Other [A]  246  (343)  (174) 
Total  1,375  1,293  1,428 
Defined contribution plans  420  403  423 
Total retirement benefit expense  1,795  1,696  1,851 
[A] Mainly related to plan amendments and curtailments on pension and OPEB plans.
Retirement benefit expenses are presented principally within production and manufacturing expenses and selling, distribution and administrative 
expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Interest income on plan assets is calculated using the same rate as that applied to the related 
defined benefit obligations for each plan to determine interest expense.
 Remeasurements
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Actuarial gains/(losses) on obligations:
Due to changes in financial assumptions on pensions [A]  28,840  1,915  (9,500) 
Due to changes in financial assumptions on OPEB [A]  527  59  (650) 
Due to experience adjustments on pensions [B]  (2,956)  136  616 
Due to experience adjustments on OPEB [B] [C]  1,480  322  188 
Due to changes in demographic assumptions on pensions [D]  27  (320)  1,310 
Due to changes in demographic assumptions on OPEB [D]  25  (111)  65 
Total  27,943  2,001  (7,971) 
Return on plan assets (shortage)/in excess of interest income  (20,612)  8,185  4,509 
Other movements  (349)  5  7 
Total remeasurements  6,982  10,191  (3,455) 
[A] Mainly relates to changes in the discount rate and inflation assumptions.
[B] Experience adjustments arise from differences between the actuarial assumptions made in respect of the year and actual outcomes.
[C] Includes $782 million to reflect the impact of prescription drug rebates.
[D] Mainly relates to updates in mortality assumptions.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
286 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
286
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

23. Retirement benefits continued
Defined benefit plan obligations
 2022
 
$ million, except where indicated
Pension benefits
Other post-
employment 
benefits
The 
Netherlands UK USA
Rest of the 
world [A] OPEB [B] Total
At January 1  35,340  29,913  19,003  18,213  4,867  107,336 
Current service cost  286  259  282  261  57  1,145 
Interest expense  298  489  417  380  120  1,704 
Actuarial gains  (8,806)  (9,793)  (3,730)  (3,582)  (2,032)  (27,943) 
Benefit payments  (942)  (1,124)  (1,088)  (771)  (178)  (4,103) 
Other movements  374  130  (91)  (154)  37  296 
Currency translation differences  (1,942)  (2,083)  —  (937)  8  (4,954) 
At December 31  24,608  17,791  14,793  13,410  2,879  73,481 
Comprising:
Funded pension plans  24,608  17,474  13,925  11,258  67,265 
Weighted average duration 17 years 15 years 12 years 13 years 15 years
Unfunded pension plans  317  868  2,152  3,337 
Weighted average duration 15 years 9 years 12 years 11 years
Unfunded OPEB plans  2,879  2,879 
Weighted average duration 14 years 14 years
[A] Includes pension plans in Germany ($3,477 million) and Canada ($3,482 million) as the largest pension plans in the rest of the world.
[B] Mainly related to post-retirement medical benefits in the USA.
 2021
 
$ million, except where indicated
Pension benefits
Other post-
employment 
benefits
The 
Netherlands UK USA
Rest of the 
world [A] OPEB [B] Total
At January 1  37,268  32,269  20,367  20,520  5,368  115,792 
Current service cost  377  323  339  339  60  1,438 
Interest expense  155  376  357  335  128  1,351 
Actuarial (gains)/losses  1,477  (1,418)  (695)  (1,095)  (270)  (2,001) 
Benefit payments  (979)  (1,306)  (1,220)  (870)  (200)  (4,575) 
Other movements  (27)  3  (145)  (167)  (187)  (523) 
Currency translation differences  (2,931)  (334)  —  (849)  (32)  (4,146) 
At December 31  35,340  29,913  19,003  18,213  4,867  107,336 
Comprising:
Funded pension plans  35,340  29,440  17,874  15,341  97,995 
Weighted average duration 19 years 19 years 12 years 17 years 18 years
Unfunded pension plans  473  1,129  2,872  4,474 
Weighted average duration 18 years 9 years 14 years 13 years
Unfunded OPEB plans  4,867  4,867 
Weighted average duration 14 years 14 years
[A] Includes pension plans in Germany ($4,988 million) and Canada ($4,740 million) as the largest pension plans in rest of the world.
[B] Mainly related to post-retirement medical benefits in the USA.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
287 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
287
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

23. Retirement benefits continued
Defined benefit plan assets
 2022
 
$ million, except where indicated
Pension benefits
The 
Netherlands UK USA
Rest of the 
world [A] Total
At January 1  37,096  33,720  18,055  15,624  104,495 
Return on plan assets in excess of interest income  (6,576)  (8,682)  (3,523)  (1,831)  (20,612) 
Interest income  314  552  406  460  1,732 
Employer contributions  228  54  408  41  731 
Plan participants’ contributions  11  16  —  5  32 
Benefit payments  (942)  (1,124)  (1,088)  (735)  (3,889) 
Other movements  (9)  150  (15)  (184)  (58) 
Currency translation differences  (2,136)  (2,723)  —  (816)  (5,675) 
At December 31  27,986  21,963  14,243  12,564  76,756 
[A] Includes pension plans in Germany ($2,538 million) and Canada ($3,497 million) as the largest pension plans in the rest of the world.
 2021
 
$ million, except where indicated
Pension benefits
The 
Netherlands UK USA
Rest of the 
world [A] Total
At January 1  37,673  32,193  17,046  15,766  102,678 
Return on plan assets in excess of interest income  3,199  2,575  1,377  1,034  8,185 
Interest income  158  376  308  318  1,160 
Employer contributions  170  266  559  (58) [B]  937 
Plan participants’ contributions  13  19  —  7  39 
Benefit payments  (979)  (1,306)  (1,220)  (821)  (4,326) 
Other movements  (6)  (13)  (15)  (13)  (47) 
Currency translation differences  (3,132)  (390)  —  (609)  (4,131) 
At December 31  37,096  33,720  18,055  15,624  104,495 
[A] Includes pension plans in Germany ($3,282 million) and Canada ($4,325 million) as the largest pension plans in the rest of world.
[B] Includes the netted amount of $294 million received from the captive structure in relation to the pension plans reinsured in rest of the world.
 Type of pension assets
2022 2021
Quoted in active markets:
Equities  1 3  %  2 2  %
Debt securities  7 0  %  5 3  %
Real estate  —  %  1  %
Other  1  %  —  %
Unquoted
Equities  1 3  %  1 0  %
Debt securities  2  %  4  %
 Real estate  7  %  6  %
Investment funds  4  %  3  %
Debt repurchase agreements [A]  ( 1 4 )  %  —  %
Cash  4  %  1  %
[A] 'Debt repurchase agreements' are mainly related to UK member defined pension plans to fund liability-driven investments. In addition to these contracts, derivatives including interest rate and 
inflation swaps are used in the principal defined benefit plan in the Netherlands for liability matching strategies.
Employer contributions to funded defined benefit pension plans are based on actuarial valuations in accordance with local regulations and are 
estimated to be $836 million in 2023.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
288 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
288
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

23. Retirement benefits continued
Characteristics of significant defined benefit and defined contribution plans and regulatory framework
The Netherlands
The principal defined benefit pension plan in the Netherlands is a funded career-averaged pension arrangement with retired employees drawing 
benefits as an annuity, with a surplus of $3,378 million reported as at December 31, 2022, (2021: $1,756 million surplus). Whilst the plan was 
closed to employees hired or rehired after July 1, 2013, it currently remains open for ongoing accrual for existing active members. 23% (2021: 
26%) of the overall defined benefit liability in the Netherlands relates to active members. From July 1, 2013, onwards new employees in the 
Netherlands are entitled to membership of a defined contribution pension plan. 
In line with Dutch regulations, the defined benefit pension plan has a joint Trustee Board with trustee representatives nominated by the Company, 
the Central Staff Council and retired members. The defined benefit pension plan also has an Accountability Council comprised of members 
nominated by the company, the Central Staff Council and retired members. Furthermore, there is a Supervisory Committee which includes external 
experts from the pension industry to oversee management, compliance and operations of the fund. The defined contribution pension plan has a 
one-tier Trustee Board with an independent chair, and trustee representatives nominated by the company and the Central Staff Council (currently 
no retired members in the fund to act as trustee) as well as two executive board members. The defined contribution fund also has an 
Accountability Council comprised of members nominated by the company and the Central Staff Council.
The Dutch House of Representatives approved a new regulatory framework for pensions in the Netherlands in December 2022. The regulatory 
framework for pensions is subject to approval by the Dutch Senate. The new regulation would have to be implemented by January 2027. 
When effective, these regulatory changes will have an impact on both the defined benefit pension plan and the defined contribution pension 
plan. As a consequence, such changes would have an impact on the Dutch pension plans which requires consent of the Central Staff Council.
UK
The three largest defined benefit pension plans for employees in the UK are funded final salary pension arrangements with retired employees 
mainly drawing benefits as an annuity with the option to take a portion as a lump sum. The three plans are separate and independent plans 
and cannot be netted against each other. In total, the plans reported a surplus of $4,172 million as at December 31, 2022 (2021: surplus of 
$3,807 million), which is after netting of unfunded plans of $317 million (2021: $473 million) which are reported as non-current liabilities on the 
balance sheet. All three plans were closed to new employees hired or rehired, however, two plans currently remain open for ongoing accrual 
for existing active members. 17% (2021: 20%) of the overall defined benefit liability in the UK relates to active members. From March 1, 2013, 
onwards new employees in the UK are entitled to membership of a defined contribution pension plan.
In line with UK regulations, the principal defined benefit pension plan is governed by a corporate trustee whose board is comprised of four trustee 
directors nominated by the company including the chair and four member-nominated trustee directors. The defined contribution pension plan is 
governed by a corporate trustee whose board is comprised of three company-nominated directors including the chair and two member-nominated 
trustee directors. The trustees are responsible for administering the plans in line with the Trust Deed and Regulations, including setting the 
investment strategy for the pension plans’ assets and paying member benefits, and are required to act in the best interests of the members
of the pension plans.
USA
The principal defined benefit pension plan in the USA is a funded final average pay pension plan with a surplus of $318 million reported as at 
December 31, 2022 (2021: $182 million surplus). After retirement, all retirees can choose to draw their benefits as an annuity, whereas others 
also have the choice to take their benefit in a lump sum. There is also an unfunded defined benefit pension plan with a deficit of $868 million 
(2021: $1,129 million deficit). The benefits under this plan are taken primarily in a lump sum. In addition, the company provides a defined 
contribution benefit plan. The funded defined benefit, unfunded defined benefit, and together with Shell's defined contribution pension plans 
are subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). 24% (2021: 24%) of the overall defined liability of the 
funded defined benefit plan in the USA relates to active members.
Both the funded defined benefit pension plan and the defined contribution pension plan are governed by trustees who are appointed by the Plan 
Sponsor and are named fiduciaries with respect to the plans. The trustees are generally responsible for investment-related matters, appointing 
the Plan Administrator, maintaining general oversight and deciding appeals of participants.
USA OPEB 
The company also sponsors "other post-retirement employee benefits" (OPEB) mainly in the USA. The OPEB plans in the USA provide medical, 
dental, and vision benefits as well as life insurance benefits to eligible retired employees. The plans are unfunded, and the company and retirees 
share the costs with a deficit of $2,135 million reported as at December 31, 2022 (2021: $4,067 million deficit). The plan that provides post-
retirement medical benefits in the USA is closed to employees hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2017. Certain life insurance benefits are 
paid by the company.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
289 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
289
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

23. Retirement benefits continued
Significant funding requirements: 
▪ Additional contributions to the Dutch defined benefit pension plan would be required if the 12-month rolling average local funding percentage 
falls below 105% for six months or more. At the most recent (2022) funding valuation the local funding percentage was above this level. 
▪ There are no set minimum statutory funding requirements for the UK plans. A professional qualified independent actuary, appointed by the 
trustee board, undertakes a local funding valuation typically every three years. The most recent completed funding valuation for the principal 
defined benefit plan was undertaken as at December 31, 2020, and revealed a funding ratio of 103% and therefore no sponsor contributions 
(except for salary sacrifice contributions) were payable under the schedule of contributions. 
▪ Under the Pension Protection Act, US pension plans are subject to minimum required contribution levels based on the funding position.
No contributions are required based on the most recent funding valuation.
Associated risks to which retirement benefits are exposed
There are inherent risks associated with defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. These risks are related to various assumptions made on valuation 
of the liabilities and the cash funding requirement of the underlying plans. Volatility in capital markets or government policies, and the resulting 
consequences for investment performance, interest and inflation rates, as well as changes in assumptions for mortality, retirement age or 
pensionable remuneration at retirement, could result in significant changes to the funding level of future liabilities, and in case of a shortfall, 
there could be a requirement to make substantial cash contributions (depending on the applicable local regulations).
These inherent risks are managed by a pension forum, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, which oversees Shell’s pension strategy, policy 
and operations. The forum is supported by a risk committee in reviewing the results of the assurance process with respect to the pension risk.
Investment strategies
Long-term investment strategies of plans are generally determined by the relevant pension plan trustees using a structured asset/liability 
modelling approach to define the asset mix that best meets the objectives of optimising returns within agreed risk levels while maintaining 
adequate funding levels.
Principal and actuarial assumptions
The principal assumptions applied in determining the present value of defined benefit obligations and their bases were as follows: 
▪ rates of increase in pensionable remuneration, pensions in payment and health-care costs: historical experience and management’s
long-term expectation;
▪ discount rates: prevailing long-term AA corporate bond yields, chosen to match the currency and duration of the relevant obligation; and 
▪ mortality rates: published standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned adjusted for Shell experience where statistically 
significant. 
The weighted averages for those assumptions and related sensitivity information at December 31, 2022 are presented below. Sensitivity 
information indicates by how much the defined benefit obligations would increase or decrease if a given assumption were to increase or decrease 
with no change in other assumptions. The sensitivity analyses may not be representative of an actual change in the defined benefit obligation as 
it is unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation from one another. The weighted averages are at nominal terms and based on 
market expectations at December 31, 2022.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
290 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
290
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

23. Retirement benefits continued
$ million, except where indicated
Effect of using alternative assumptions
Assumptions used
at nominal rates Increase/(decrease) in defined benefit obligations
Dec
31, 2022
Dec 31,
2021
Range
of assumptions Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Rate of increase in pensionable remuneration [A]  4 . 0  %  3 . 4  %-1% to +1%  (833)  921  (1,519)  1,672 
of which the Netherlands  3 . 3  %  2 . 8  %
of which UK  4 . 1  %  3 . 6  %
of which USA  4 . 6  %  4 . 1  %
Rate of increase in pensions in payment  2 . 1  %  2 . 0  %-1% to +1%  (5,542)  6,657  (9,908)  12,171 
of which the Netherlands  2 . 6  %  2 . 2  %
of which UK  3 . 0  %  3 . 0  %
of which USA  —  %  —  %
Discount rate for pension plans  4 . 5  %  2 . 0  %-1% to +1%  10,522  (8,328)  18,954  (14,599) 
of which the Netherlands  3 . 7  %  1 . 2  %
of which UK  4 . 8  %  1 . 9  %
of which USA  5 . 0  %  2 . 9  %
Inflation rate for defined benefit obligation [B]  2 . 2  %  2 . 1  %-1% to +1%  (6,002)  7,271  (10,691)  13,325 
of which the Netherlands  2 . 6  %  2 . 2  %
of which UK  3 . 1  %  3 . 2  %
Expected age at death for persons aged 60:
Men 87 years 87 years -1 year to +1 year  (1,130)  1,103  (1,946)  1,937 
of which the Netherlands 88 years 88 years
of which UK 87 years 88 years
of which USA 85 years 85 years
Women 89 years 89 years -1 year to +1 year  (993)  1,077  (1,863)  1,972 
of which the Netherlands 89 years 89 years
of which UK 90 years 90 years
of which USA 86 years 86 years
Rate of increase in health-care costs [C]  6 . 4  %  6 . 2  %-1% to +1%  (298)  372  (513)  630 
Discount rate for health-care plans [C]  5 . 7  %  2 . 9  %-1% to +1%  401  (309)  678  (539) 
[A] Based on active members. 
[B] Excluding US funds in the weighted average inflation rate, because of the insignificant impact on the defined benefit obligation.
[C] Mainly related to post-retirement health-care benefits in the USA.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
291 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
291
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

24. Decommissioning and other provisions
$ million
Decommissioning
and restoration
Onerous 
contracts Legal Environmental Redundancy Other Total
At January 1, 2022
Current  871  653  270  332  410  802  3,338 
Non-current  21,213  1,029  1,141  847  235  1,339  25,804 
 22,084  1,682  1,411  1,179  645  2,141  29,142 
Additions  618  620  314  178  226  832  2,788 
Amounts charged against provisions  (672)  (661)  (272)  (211)  (372)  (333)  (2,521) 
Accretion expense  483  13  16  12  1  5  530 
Disposals and liabilities classified as held for sale  (1,228)  (66)  (21)  (2)  —  (7)  (1,324) 
Remeasurements and other movements  (182)  (139)  (44)  (78)  (155)  (354)  (952) 
Currency translation differences  (818)  35  (3)  (27)  (21)  (74)  (908) 
 (1,799)  (198)  (10)  (128)  (321)  69  (2,387) 
At December 31, 2022
Current  856  277  224  321  171  1,061  2,910 
Non-current  19,429  1,207  1,177  730  153  1,149  23,845 
 20,285  1,484  1,401  1,051  324  2,210  26,755 
At January 1, 2021
Current  900  532  521  273  673  723  3,622 
Non-current  22,081  1,207  1,229  952  265  1,382  27,116 
 22,981  1,739  1,750  1,225  938  2,105  30,738 
Additions  1,040  229  197  153  991  752  3,362 
Amounts charged against provisions  (662)  (264)  (340)  (154)  (733)  (292)  (2,445) 
Accretion expense  405  14  11  9  1  10  450 
Disposals and liabilities classified as held for sale  (819)  —  (5)  (17)  (1)  (27)  (869) 
Remeasurements and other movements  (609)  (36)  (196)  (11)  (512)  (339)  (1,703) 
Currency translation differences  (252)  —  (6)  (26)  (39)  (68)  (391) 
 (897)  (57)  (339)  (46)  (293)  36  (1,596) 
At December 31, 2021
Current  871  653  270  332  410  802  3,338 
Non-current  21,213  1,029  1,141  847  235  1,339  25,804 
 22,084  1,682  1,411  1,179  645  2,141  29,142 
The amount and timing of settlement in respect of these provisions are uncertain and dependent on various factors that are not always within 
management’s control. Reviews of estimated future decommissioning and restoration costs and the discount rate applied are carried out regularly. 
The discount rate applied at December 31, 2022, was 3.25% (2021: 2%). An increase of 0.5% or a decrease of 0.5% in the discount rate could 
result in a decrease of $1.2 billion (2021: $1.5 billion) or an increase of $1.3 billion (2021: $1.7 billion) of decommissioning and restoration 
provisions, respectively. Such increase or decrease will be reflected in the carrying amount of the related asset. Where applicable that carrying 
amount is to be tested for impairment. 
In 2022, there was a decrease of $3,309 million in the decommissioning and restoration provision as a result of the change in the discount rate, 
partly offset by an increase in the provision resulting from changes in cost estimates of $3,009 million, reported within remeasurements and other 
movements.
Other provisions at December 31, 2022, include amounts recognised in respect of employee benefits.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
292 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
292
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

24. Decommissioning and other provisions continued
The decommissioning and restoration provision at December 31, 2022, is expected to be utilised within:
 
$ million
Dec 31, 2022
Between 1 to 5 years  4,219 
Between 6 to 10 years  3,882 
11 years and later  12,184 
Total  20,285 
25. Financial instruments
Financial instruments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet include investments in securities (see Note 14), cash and cash equivalents (see Note 17), 
finance debt (see Note 20) and derivative contracts.
Risks
In the normal course of business, financial instruments of various kinds are used for the purposes of managing exposure to interest rate, foreign 
exchange and commodity price movements.
Treasury standards are applicable to all subsidiaries and each subsidiary is required to adopt a treasury policy consistent with these standards. 
These policies cover: financing structure; interest rate and foreign exchange risk management; insurance; counterparty risk management; and use 
of derivative contracts. Wherever possible, treasury operations are carried out through specialist regional organisations without removing from 
each subsidiary the responsibility to formulate and implement appropriate treasury policies.
Apart from forward foreign exchange contracts to meet known commitments, the use of derivative contracts by most subsidiaries is not permitted 
by their treasury policy.
Other than in exceptional cases, the use of external derivative contracts is confined to specialist trading and central treasury organisations that 
have appropriate skills, experience, supervision, control and reporting systems.
Shell’s operations expose it to market, credit and liquidity risk, as described below.
Market risk
Market risk is the possibility that changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates or the prices of crude oil, natural gas, LNG, refined products, 
chemical feedstocks, power and environmental certificates will adversely affect the value of assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows.
Interest rate risk
Most debt is raised from central borrowing programmes. Shell’s policy continues to be to have debt principally denominated in dollars and to 
maintain a largely floating interest rate exposure profile; however, Shell has issued a significant amount of fixed rate debt in recent years, taking 
advantage of historically low interest rates available in debt markets. As a result, the majority of the debt portfolio at December 31, 2022, is at 
fixed rates and this reduces Shell’s adverse exposure to rising floating dollar interest rates (see Note 2). 
The financing of most subsidiaries is structured on a floating-rate basis, and any further interest rate risk management is only applied under 
exceptional circumstances. 
On the basis of the floating-rate net cash position at December 31, 2022, (both issued and hedged), and assuming other factors (principally 
foreign exchange rates and commodity prices) remained constant and that no further interest rate management action was taken, an increase 
in interest rates of 1% would have increased 2022 income before taxation by $234 million (2021: $174 million increase).
The carrying amounts and maturities of debt and borrowing facilities are presented in Note 20. Interest expense is presented in Note 10.
Foreign exchange risk 
Many of the markets in which Shell operates are priced, directly or indirectly, in dollars. As a result, the functional currency of most Integrated Gas 
and Upstream entities and those with significant cross-border business is the dollar. For Chemicals and Products entities, the functional currency is 
typically the local currency. Consequently, Shell is exposed to varying levels of foreign exchange risk when an entity enters into transactions that 
are not denominated in its functional currency, when foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the balance sheet date and 
as a result of holding net investments in operations that are not dollar-functional. Each entity is required to adopt treasury policies that are 
designed to measure and manage its foreign exchange exposures by reference to its functional currency.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
293 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
293
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

25. Financial instruments continued
Foreign exchange gains and losses arise in the normal course of business from the recognition of receivables and payables and other monetary 
items in currencies other than an entity’s functional currency. Foreign exchange risk may also arise in connection with capital expenditure. For 
major projects, an assessment is made at the final investment decision stage of whether to hedge any resulting exposure. 
Assuming other factors (principally interest rates and commodity prices) remained constant and that no further foreign exchange risk management 
action were taken, a 10% appreciation against the dollar at December 31 of the main currencies to which Shell is exposed would have the 
following effects:
$ million
Increase/(decrease)
in income before taxation Increase in net assets
2022 2021 2022 2021
10% appreciation against the dollar of:
Sterling  (168)  (180)  894  738 
Euro  124  (123)  1,486  601 
Malaysian ringgit  65  119  313  399 
Australian dollar  (65)  (3)  837  591 
Canadian dollar  (44)  (44)  1,575  1,439 
The above sensitivity information was calculated by reference to carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at December 31 only. The effect on 
income before taxation arises in connection with monetary balances denominated in currencies other than an entity’s functional currency; the 
effect on net assets arises principally from the translation of assets and liabilities of entities that are not dollar-functional. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses included in income are presented in Note 9.
Commodity price risk 
Certain subsidiaries have a mandate to trade crude oil, natural gas, LNG, refined products, chemical feedstocks, power and environmental 
certificates, and to use commodity derivative contracts (forwards, futures, swaps and options) as a means of managing price and timing risks 
arising from this trading activity. In effecting these transactions, the entities concerned operate within procedures and policies designed to ensure 
that risks, including those relating to the default of counterparties, are managed within authorised limits. A department that is independent from 
Shell's traders monitors market risk exposures daily.
Value-at-risk (VAR) techniques based on variance/covariance or Monte Carlo simulation models are used to make a statistical assessment of the 
market risk arising from possible future changes in market values for commodity positions held by these subsidiaries over a 1-day holding period 
and within a 95% confidence level. The calculation of potential changes in fair value takes into account positions, the history of price movements 
and the correlation of these price movements. Models are regularly reviewed against actual fair value movements to ensure integrity is 
maintained. The VAR average and year-end positions in respect of commodities traded in active markets, which are presented in the table below, 
are calculated on a diversified basis in order to reflect the effect of offsetting risk within combined portfolios. 2022 was a year of high market 
volatility driving higher VAR than historic levels. As a result, Shell operated with enhanced risk management protocols.
 Value-at-risk (pre-tax)
$ million
2022 2021
Average Year-end Average Year-end
Global oil  72  56  26  30 
North America gas and power  18  23  12  15 
Europe gas and power  54  40  11  13 
Australia gas and power  12  12  8  6 
Environmental certificates  10  13  8  10 
Furthermore, commodity derivative hedge contracts are used to partially mitigate price volatility on future LNG sales and purchases. 
As contracts to buy and sell physical LNG are accounted for on an accrual basis (see Note 2) and commodity derivatives are accounted for on a 
fair-value basis, this creates an accounting mismatch over periods. The fair value accounting of commodity derivatives can result in gains or losses 
in the income statement, which for Adjusted Earnings are part of identified items.
These derivative contracts are based on a mix of European and North American gas price indices, global crude price indices and Asian LNG price 
indices. In 2022, Shell has seen high volatility in these markets and volumes of financial derivatives increased. On that basis, a sensitivity analysis 
has been performed for a 50% price increase or decrease of this basket of derivative contracts at year-end 2022, which would result in a gain 
or loss of $2.7 billion (pre-tax) in the income statement (2021: $0.3 billion).
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
294 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
294
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

25. Financial instruments continued
Credit risk 
Policies are in place to ensure that sales of products are made to customers with appropriate creditworthiness. These policies include credit 
analysis and monitoring of trading partners against counterparty credit limits. Credit information is regularly shared between business and finance 
functions, with dedicated teams in place to quickly identify and respond to cases of credit deterioration. Mitigation measures are defined and 
implemented for higher-risk business partners and customers, and include shortened payment terms, collateral or other security posting and 
vigorous collections. In addition, policies limit the amount of credit exposure to any individual financial institution. Elevated commodity prices, 
mainly in relation to strategic long-term deals in the gas portfolios resulted in a material concentration of credit risk representing around 25% 
of total Shell net credit exposure after offsetting for cash collateral and other instruments held.
Surplus cash is invested in a range of short-dated, secure and liquid instruments including short-term bank deposits, money market funds, reverse 
repos and similar instruments. The portfolio of these investments is diversified to avoid concentrating risk in any one instrument, country or 
counterparty. Management monitors the investments regularly and adjusts the investment portfolio in light of new market information where 
necessary to ensure credit risk is effectively diversified.
In commodity trading, counterparty credit risk is managed within a framework of credit limits with utilisation being regularly reviewed. Credit 
risk exposure is monitored and the acceptable level of credit exposure is determined by a credit committee. Credit checks are performed by 
a department independent of traders, and are undertaken before contractual commitment. Where appropriate, netting arrangements, credit 
insurance, prepayments and collateral are used to manage specific risks.
Shell routinely enters into offsetting, master netting and similar arrangements with trading and other counterparties to manage credit risk. Where 
there is a legally enforceable right of offset under such arrangements and Shell has the intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and 
settle the liability simultaneously, the net asset or liability is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, otherwise assets and liabilities are 
presented gross. These amounts, as presented net and gross within trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and derivative 
financial instruments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, were as follows:
 2022
 
$ million
Amounts 
offset
Amounts not 
offset
Gross 
amounts
before offset
Amounts
offset
Net amounts
as presented
Cash collateral
received/pledged
Other 
offsetting
instruments Net amounts
Assets:
Within trade receivables  28,259  17,200  11,059  292  495  10,272 
Within derivative financial instruments  56,154  34,685  21,469  1,904  4,563  15,002 
Liabilities:
Within trade payables  29,981  17,200  12,781  608  495  11,678 
Within derivative financial instruments  58,991  34,710  24,281  4,788  3,364  16,129 
 2021
 
$ million
Amounts 
offset
Amounts not 
offset
Gross 
amounts
before offset
Amounts
offset
Net amounts
as presented
Cash collateral
received/pledged
Other 
offsetting 
instruments Net amounts
Assets:
Within trade receivables  20,561  11,937  8,624  164  283  8,177 
Within derivative financial instruments  48,813  39,819  8,994  902  3,098  4,994 
Liabilities:
Within trade payables  19,347  11,935  7,412  61  283  7,068 
Within derivative financial instruments  54,534  40,350  14,184  697  3,109  10,378 
Amounts not offset principally relate to contracts where the intention to settle on a net basis was not clearly established at December 31.
The carrying amount of financial assets pledged as collateral for liabilities or contingent liabilities at December 31, 2022, presented within trade 
and other receivables, was $11,133 million (2021: $6,968 million). The carrying amount of collateral held at December 31, 2022, presented within 
trade and other payables, was $1,648 million (2021: $1,909 million). Collateral mainly relates to initial margins held with commodity exchanges 
and over-the-counter counterparty variation margins. Some derivative contracts are fully cash collateralised, thereby eliminating both counterparty 
risk and the Group’s own non-performance risk.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
295 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
295
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

25. Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that suitable sources of funding for Shell’s business activities may not be available. Management believes that it has access 
to sufficient debt funding sources (capital markets) and to undrawn committed borrowing facilities to meet foreseeable requirements. Information 
about borrowing facilities is presented in Note 20.
Interbank Offered Rate (IBOR) reform
USD London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) is the most significant IBOR for Shell. USD LIBOR will cease to be representative after June 30, 2023. 
Significant IBOR exposures, disaggregated by tenure at December 31, 2022, are as follows:
 
$ million
December 31, 2022
Non-derivative 
financial assets - 
carrying value
Non-derivative 
financial liabilities - 
carrying value
Derivatives - 
Nominal amount
USD LIBOR (1 month)  34 
USD LIBOR (3 months)  1,898  1,176  4,754 
USD LIBOR (6 months)  238 
Cross-currency interest rate swaps:
EUR Fixed to USD LIBOR (3 months)  8,311 
GBP Fixed to USD LIBOR (3 months)  1,078 
CHF Fixed to USD LIBOR (3 months)  1,359 
MYR LIBOR (3 months) to USD LIBOR (3 months)  360 
Total  2,170  1,176  15,862 
Shell has established a Group-wide IBOR Transition Project, with oversight from the Group Treasurer. The project spans all business lines and has 
cross-functional senior governance which includes Legal, IT and Finance, including treasury, tax and accounting experts. Shell put in place detailed 
plans, processes and procedures to support the transition of the affected portfolio including making changes to systems, processes and risk 
management, as well as related tax and accounting implications. Shell is confident that it has the operational capability to process the 
transitions to risk-free rates for those interest rate benchmarks such as USD LIBOR that will cease to be representative after June 30, 2023.
Derivative contracts and hedges
Derivative contracts are used principally as hedging instruments, however, because hedge accounting is not always applied, movements in the 
carrying amounts of derivative contracts that are recognised in income are not always matched in the same period by the recognition of the 
income effects of the related hedged items.
Carrying amounts, maturities and hedges 
The carrying amounts of derivative contracts at December 31, designated and not designated as hedging instruments for hedge accounting 
purposes, were as follows:
 2022
 
$ million
Assets Liabilities
Designated
Not
designated Total Designated
Not
designated Total Net
Interest rate swaps  —  1  1  169  —  169  (168) 
Forward foreign exchange contracts  —  907  907  —  996  996  (89) 
Currency swaps and options  31  24  55  2,925  5  2,930  (2,875) 
Commodity derivatives  —  23,676  23,676  —  22,858  22,858  818 
Other contracts  —  380  380  —  389  389  (9) 
Total  31  24,988  25,019  3,094  24,248  27,342  (2,323) 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
296 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
296
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

25. Financial instruments continued 
 2021
$ million
Assets Liabilities
Designated
Not
designated Total Designated
Not
designated Total Net
Interest rate swaps  237  —  237  24  14  38  199 
Forward foreign exchange contracts  —  456  456  —  280  280  176 
Currency swaps and options  277  22  299  860  33  893  (594) 
Commodity derivatives  12  10,979  10,991  —  15,732  15,732  (4,741) 
Other contracts  —  201  201  —  255  255  (54) 
Total  526  11,658  12,184  884  16,314  17,198  (5,014) 
As part of Shell's normal business, commodity derivative hedge contracts are entered into for mitigation of future purchases, sales and inventory. 
Net gains before tax on derivative contracts, excluding those accounted for as hedges, were $1,331 million in 2022 (2021: $8,377 million losses; 
2020: $3,295 million gains). 
Certain contracts, mainly to hedge price risk relating to forecast commodity transactions, were designated in cash flow hedging relationships 
and are presented after the offset of related margin balances with exchanges. Contracts to hedge foreign exchange risks were also designated 
in cash flow hedging relationships and the net carrying amount of these contracts at December 31, 2022, was a liability of $828 million 
(2021: $173 million liability). See Note 28 for the accumulated balance recognised within other comprehensive income.
Certain interest rate and currency swaps were designated in fair value hedges, principally in respect of debt for which the net carrying amount 
of the related derivative contracts, net of accrued interest, at December 31, 2022, was a liability of $2,191 million (2021: $250 million liability). 
In 2022, €3 billion (2021: €3 billion) of debt instruments were designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations, relating to the 
foreign exchange risk arising between certain intermediate holding companies and their subsidiaries. See Note 28 for the accumulated balance 
recognised within other comprehensive income.
In the course of trading operations, certain contracts are entered into for delivery of commodities that are accounted for as derivatives. 
The resulting price exposures are managed by entering into related derivative contracts. These contracts are managed on a fair value basis 
and the maximum exposure to liquidity risk is the undiscounted fair value of derivative liabilities. 
For a minority of commodity derivatives contracts, carrying amounts cannot be derived from quoted market prices or other observable inputs, 
in which case fair value is estimated using valuation techniques such as Black-Scholes, option spread models and extrapolation using quoted 
spreads with assumptions developed internally based on observable market activity.
Other contracts include certain contracts that are held to sell or purchase commodities and others containing embedded derivatives, which 
are required to be recognised at fair value because of pricing or delivery conditions, even though they were entered into to meet operational 
requirements. These contracts are expected to mature in 2023-2025, with certain contracts having early termination rights (for either party). 
Valuations are derived from other observable inputs.
The contractual maturities of derivative liabilities at December 31 compare with their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as 
follows:
 2022
 
$ million
Contractual maturities
Less than
1 year
Between
1 and 2
years
Between
2 and 3
years
Between
3 and 4
years
Between
4 and 5
years
5 years
and later Total
Difference
from carrying
amount [A]
Carrying
amount
Interest rate swaps  120  50  2  1  1  1  175  (6)  169 
Forward foreign exchange contracts  629  294  18  (1)  (2)  (3)  935  61  996 
Currency swaps and options  582  554  750  588  507  1,353  4,334  (1,404)  2,930 
Commodity derivatives  17,273  3,678  1,203  515  270  793  23,732  (874)  22,858 
Other contracts  212  148  22  1  1  —  384  5  389 
Total  18,816  4,724  1,995  1,104  777  2,144  29,560  (2,218)  27,342 
[A] Mainly related to the effect of discounting.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
297 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
297
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

25. Financial instruments continued
 2021
 
$ million
Contractual maturities
Less than
1 year
Between
1 and 2
years
Between
2 and 3
years
Between
3 and 4
years
Between
4 and 5
years
5 years
and later Total
Difference
from carrying
amount [A]
Carrying
amount
Interest rate swaps  13  13  5  4  3  4  42  (4)  38 
Forward foreign exchange contracts  170  40  114  —  —  —  324  (44)  280 
Currency swaps and options  321  150  159  287  356  808  2,081  (1,188)  893 
Commodity derivatives  12,614  1,401  783  274  158  531  15,761  (29)  15,732 
Other contracts  222  34  —  —  —  —  256  (1)  255 
Total  13,340  1,638  1,061  565  517  1,343  18,464  (1,266)  17,198 
[A] Mainly related to the effect of discounting.
Fair value measurements 
The net carrying amounts of derivative contracts held at December 31, categorised according to the predominant source and nature of inputs 
used in determining the fair value of each contract, were as follows: 
 2022
 
$ million
Prices in active 
markets for 
identical
assets/liabilities
Other
observable
inputs
Unobservable
inputs Total
Interest rate swaps  —  (168)  —  (168) 
Forward foreign exchange contracts  —  (89)  —  (89) 
Currency swaps and options  —  (2,875)  —  (2,875) 
Commodity derivatives  68  (1,161)  1,911  818 
Other contracts  —  (7)  (2)  (9) 
Total  68  (4,300)  1,909  (2,323) 
 2021
 
$ million
Prices in active 
markets for 
identical
assets/liabilities
Other
observable
inputs
Unobservable
inputs Total
Interest rate swaps  —  199  —  199 
Forward foreign exchange contracts  —  176  —  176 
Currency swaps and options  —  (594)  —  (594) 
Commodity derivatives  41  (5,171)  389  (4,741) 
Other contracts  6  (60)  —  (54) 
Total  47  (5,450)  389  (5,014) 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
298 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
298
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

25. Financial instruments continued
 Net carrying amounts of derivative contracts measured using predominantly unobservable inputs
$ million
2022 2021
At January 1  389  1,077 
Net gains/(losses) recognised in revenue  1,190  (569) 
Purchases  886  440 
Sales  (623)  (442) 
Settlements  46  (32) 
Recategorisations (net)  17  (87) 
Currency translation differences  4  2 
At December 31  1,909  389 
Included in net gains/(losses) recognised in revenue in 2022 were unrealised net gains totalling $449 million relating to assets and liabilities 
held at December 31, 2022 (2021: $175 million losses).
Unrecognised day one gains or losses
Certain long-term commodity contracts extend to periods where observable pricing data are limited and their value may include estimates. 
Where this is more than an insignificant part of the overall contract valuation, any gains or losses will be deferred. Valuation techniques are 
further described in Note 2. The unrecognised gains on these derivative contracts at December 31, 2022, were as follows:
$ million
2022 2021
At January 1  1,024  968 
Movements  596  56 
At December 31  1,620  1,024 
26. Share capital
 
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of €0.07 each [A]
 
 
Number of shares Nominal value $ million
A B
Ordinary
shares A B
Ordinary 
shares Total
At January 1, 2022  4,101,239,499  3,582,892,954  345  296  641 
Repurchases of shares before assimilation  —  (34,106,548)  —  (3)  (3) 
Assimilation of ordinary A and B shares into 
ordinary shares  (4,101,239,499)  (3,548,786,406)  7,650,025,905  (345)  (293)  638 
Repurchases of B shares on January 27 and 
28, 2022, cancelled as ordinary shares on 
February 2 and 3, 2022  (507,742)  —  — 
Repurchases of shares after assimilation  (646,014,770)  (54)  (54) 
At December 31, 2022  7,003,503,393  584  584 
At January 1, 2021  4,101,239,499  3,706,183,836  345  306  651 
Repurchases of shares  —  (123,290,882)  —  (10)  (10) 
At December 31, 2021  4,101,239,499  3,582,892,954  345  296  641 
[A] Share capital at December 31, 2022, and 2021, also included 50,000 issued and fully paid sterling deferred shares of £1 each.
On January 29, 2022, as part of the Simplification announced on December 20, 2021, the Company's A and B shares were assimilated into a 
single line of ordinary shares. This is reflected in the above table.
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) on May 24, 2022, the Board was authorised to allot ordinary shares in the Company, and to 
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into ordinary shares in the Company, up to an aggregate nominal amount of €177.0 million 
(representing 2,530 million ordinary shares of €0.07 each), and to list such shares or rights on any stock exchange. This authority expires at the 
earlier of the close of business on August 24, 2023, and the end of the AGM to be held in 2023, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied 
by the Company in a general meeting.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
299 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
299
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

26. Share capital continued
At the May 24, 2022, AGM, shareholders granted the Company the authority to repurchase (i) up to 758 million ordinary shares "on-
market" (excluding any treasury shares), less the number of ordinary shares purchased or committed to be purchased in terms of the buyback 
contracts ("off-market"), made under the authority in (ii); and (ii) up to 758 million ordinary shares off-market, less any on-market purchases made 
under the authority in (i).
In the case of both on-market and off-market purchases of the ordinary shares, the minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for 
an ordinary share is €0.07 and the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary share is the higher of: (i) an amount 
equal to 5% above the average market value for an ordinary share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase; 
and (ii) the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid in relation to ordinary shares on the trading 
venues where the purchase is carried out. The authorities for both on-market and off- market purchases of the ordinary shares will expire at the 
earlier of the close of business on August 24, 2023, and the end of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2023. Ordinary shares purchased 
by the Company pursuant to these authorities will either be cancelled or held in treasury. Treasury shares are shares in the Company which are 
owned by the Company itself.
27. Share-based compensation plans and shares held in trust
 Share-based compensation expense
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Equity-settled [A]  807  539  359 
[A] On an incidental basis awards may be cash-settled, where an equity settlement is not possible under local regulations.
The principal share-based employee compensation plans are the PSP and LTIP. Awards of shares and American Depositary Shares (ADS) of the 
Company under the PSP and LTIP are granted upon certain conditions to eligible employees. The actual number of shares that may vest ranges 
from 0% to 200% of the awards, depending on the outcomes of prescribed performance conditions over a three-year period beginning on 
January 1 of the award year. 
 Share awards
 
Number of A 
shares
(million)
Number of B 
shares
(million)
Number of 
ordinary shares 
(million) [A]
Number of 
ADSs
(million)
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(years)
At January 1, 2022  38  12  9 1.2
Assimilation of ordinary A and B shares into ordinary shares  (38)  (12)  50 
Granted  22  4 
Vested  (16)  (3) 
Forfeited  (2)  (1) 
At December 31, 2022  54  9 1.1
At January 1, 2021  29  10  8 1.0
Granted  20  6  4 
Vested  (9)  (3)  (2) 
Forfeited  (2)  (1)  (1) 
At December 31, 2021  38  12  9 1.2
[A] On January 29, 2022, as part of the Simplification announced on December 20, 2021, the Company's A and B shares were assimilated into a single line of ordinary shares. 
Other plans offer eligible employees opportunities to acquire shares and ADSs of the Company or receive cash benefits measured by reference 
to the Company’s share price. 
Shell employee share ownership trusts and trust-like entities purchase the Company’s shares in the open market to meet delivery commitments 
under employee share plans. At December 31, 2022, they held a total of 23.9 million ordinary shares (2021: A shares: 15.6 million and B shares: 
4.5 million) and 4.5 million ADSs (2021: 4.5 million).
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
300 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
300
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

28. Other reserves
 Other reserves attributable to Shell plc shareholders
 
$ million
Merger
reserve
Share
premium
reserve
Capital
redemption
reserve
Share plan
reserve
Accumulated
other
comprehensive
income Total
At January 1, 2022  37,298  154  139  964  (19,646)  18,909 
Other comprehensive income attributable to Shell plc shareholders  —  —  —  —  2,024  2,024 
Transfer from other comprehensive income  —  —  —  —  (34)  (34) 
Repurchases of shares  —  —  57  —  —  57 
Share-based compensation  —  —  —  176  —  176 
At December 31, 2022  37,298  154  196  1,140  (17,656)  21,132 
At January 1, 2021  37,298  154  129  906  (25,735)  12,752 
Other comprehensive income attributable to Shell plc shareholders  —  —  —  —  6,134  6,134 
Transfer from other comprehensive income  —  —  —  —  (45)  (45) 
Repurchases of shares  —  —  10  —  —  10 
Share-based compensation  —  —  —  58  —  58 
At December 31, 2021  37,298  154  139  964  (19,646)  18,909 
At January 1, 2020  37,298  154  123  1,049  (24,173)  14,451 
Other comprehensive loss attributable to Shell plc shareholders  —  —  —  —  (1,832)  (1,832) 
Transfer from other comprehensive income  —  —  —  —  270  270 
Repurchases of shares  —  —  6  —  —  6 
Share-based compensation  —  —  —  (143)  —  (143) 
At December 31, 2020  37,298  154  129  906  (25,735)  12,752 
The merger reserve and share premium reserve were established as a consequence of the Company becoming the single parent company of Royal 
Dutch Petroleum Company and The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company, plc, now The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited, in 2005. 
The merger reserve increased in 2016 following the issuance of shares for the acquisition of BG Group plc. 
The capital redemption reserve was established in connection with repurchases of shares of the Company. 
The share plan reserve is in respect of equity-settled share-based compensation plans (see Note 27). The movement comprises the net of the 
charge for the year and the release as a result of vested awards.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
301 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
301
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

28. Other reserves continued
Accumulated other comprehensive income comprises the following:
 Accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to Shell plc shareholders
 
$ million
Currency
translation
differences
Equity
instruments
remeasurements
Debt
instruments
remeasurements
Cash flow
hedging 
(losses)/
gains
Net 
investment
hedging 
(losses)/
gains
Deferred
cost of
hedging
Retirement
benefits
remeasurements Total
At January 1, 2022  (9,563)  1,294  3  (536)  (2,144)  (226)  (8,474)  (19,646) 
Recognised in other comprehensive 
income  (3,422)  (524)  (90)  426  180  64  6,982  3,616 
Reclassified to income  437  —  12  (636)  —  81  —  (106) 
Reclassified to the balance sheet  —  —  —  (81)  —  —  —  (81) 
Reclassified to retained earnings  —  (32)  —  —  —  —  (2)  (34) 
Tax on amounts recognised/reclassified  (1)  33  —  59  —  55  (1,516)  (1,370) 
Total, net of tax  (2,986)  (523)  (78)  (232)  180  200  5,464  2,025 
Share of joint ventures and associates  30  (283)  —  244  —  —  30  21 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for 
the period  (2,956)  (806)  (78)  12  180  200  5,494  2,046 
Less: non-controlling interest  (71)  (1)  —  —  —  —  16  (56) 
Attributable to Shell plc shareholders  (3,027)  (807)  (78)  12  180  200  5,510  1,990 
At December 31, 2022  (12,590)  487  (75)  (524)  (1,964)  (26)  (2,964)  (17,656) 
At January 1, 2021  (8,175)  1,144  31  (485)  (2,439)  (187)  (15,624)  (25,735) 
Recognised in other comprehensive 
income  (1,841)  180  (23)  88  295  (145)  10,191  8,745 
Reclassified to income  368  —  (5)  (38)  —  92  —  417 
Reclassified to the balance sheet  —  —  —  (13)  —  —  —  (13) 
Reclassified to retained earnings  —  (45)  —  —  —  —  —  (45) 
Tax on amounts recognised/reclassified  60  (35)  —  (16)  —  14  (2,993)  (2,970) 
Total, net of tax  (1,413)  100  (28)  21  295  (39)  7,198  6,134 
Share of joint ventures and associates  (36)  50  —  (72)  —  —  (48)  (106) 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for 
the period  (1,449)  150  (28)  (51)  295  (39)  7,150  6,028 
Less: non-controlling interest  61  —  —  —  —  —  —  61 
Attributable to Shell plc shareholders  (1,388)  150  (28)  (51)  295  (39)  7,150  6,089 
At December 31, 2021  (9,563)  1,294  3  (536)  (2,144)  (226)  (8,474)  (19,646) 
At January 1, 2020  (9,415)  793  8  (233)  (2,016)  (287)  (13,023)  (24,173) 
Recognised in other comprehensive 
income  1,204  68  31  (9)  (423)  17  (3,455)  (2,567) 
Reclassified to income  (28)  —  (8)  (173)  —  94  —  (115) 
Reclassified to the balance sheet  —  —  —  16  —  —  —  16 
Reclassified to retained earnings  —  169  —  —  —  —  101  270 
Tax on amounts recognised/reclassified  3  (4)  —  6  —  (11)  753  747 
Total, net of tax  1,179  233  23  (160)  (423)  100  (2,601)  (1,649) 
Share of joint ventures and associates  51  118  —  (92)  —  —  —  77 
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for 
the period  1,230  351  23  (252)  (423)  100  (2,601)  (1,572) 
Less: non-controlling interest  10  —  —  —  —  —  —  10 
Attributable to Shell plc shareholders  1,240  351  23  (252)  (423)  100  (2,601)  (1,562) 
At December 31, 2020  (8,175)  1,144  31  (485)  (2,439)  (187)  (15,624)  (25,735) 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
302 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
302
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

29. Dividends
 Interim dividends
$ per share $ million
2022 2021 [A] 2020 [A] 2022 2021 [B] 2020 [B]
Cash: 
March  0.24  0.1665  0.47  1,829  1,290  3,482 
June  0.25  0.1735  0.16  1,850  1,331  1,239 
September  0.25  0.24  0.16  1,818  1,854  1,236 
December  0.25  0.24  0.1665  1,786  1,846  1,313 
Total  0.99  0.82  0.9565  7,283  6,321  7,270 
[A] In 2021 and 2020 Shell plc declared equal amounts of dividends per A and B share as presented in the table for those years.
[B] Dividends paid on A share totalled in 2021: $3,330 million and in 2020: $3,860 million; dividends paid on B share totalled in 2021: $2,991 million and in 2020: $3,410 million.
On February 2, 2023, the Directors announced a further interim dividend in respect of 2022 of $0.2875 per ordinary share. The total dividend 
is estimated to be $1,998 million and is payable on March 27, 2023, to shareholders on the register at February 17, 2023.
Shareholders will be able to elect to receive their dividends in US dollars, sterling or euros.
30. Earnings per share
2022 2021 2020
Income/(loss) attributable to Shell plc shareholders ($ million)  42,309 20,101 (21,680)
Weighted average number of shares used as the basis for determining:
Basic earnings per share (million of shares)  7,347.5  7,761.7  7,795.6 
Diluted earnings per share (million of shares)  7,410.5  7,806.8  7,795.6 
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the income attributable to Shell plc shareholders for the year by the weighted average number 
of shares outstanding during the year. The weighted average number of shares outstanding excludes shares held in trust.
Diluted earnings per share are based on the same income figures. The weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year is 
increased by dilutive shares related to share-based compensation plans. If the inclusion of potentially issuable shares could decrease diluted 
loss per share, the potentially issuable shares are excluded from the weighted average number of shares outstanding used to calculate diluted 
earnings per share.
31. Legal proceedings and other contingencies
General
In the ordinary course of business, Shell subsidiaries are subject to a number of contingencies arising from litigation and claims brought by 
governmental authorities, including tax authorities, and private parties. The operations and earnings of Shell subsidiaries continue, from time to 
time, to be affected to varying degrees by political, legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments, including those relating to the protection of the 
environment and indigenous groups in the countries in which they operate. The industries in which Shell subsidiaries are engaged are also subject 
to physical risks of various types.
The amounts claimed in relation to such events and, if such claims against Shell were successful, the costs of implementing the remedies sought in 
the various cases could be substantial. Based on information available to date and taking into account that in some cases it is not practicable to 
estimate the possible magnitude or timing of any resultant payments, management believes that the foregoing are not expected to have a material 
adverse impact on Shell’s Consolidated Financial Statements. However, there remains a high degree of uncertainty around these contingencies, 
as well as their potential effect on future operations, earnings, cash flows and Shell’s financial condition.
In certain divestment transactions, liabilities related to decommissioning and restoration are de-recognised upon transfer of these obligations to the 
buyer. For certain of these obligations Shell has issued guarantees to third parties and continues to be liable in case the primary obligor is not able 
to meet its obligation. These potential obligations arising from issuance of these guarantees are assessed to be remote.
Decommissioning and restoration of manufacturing facilities
Prior to 2020, in line with industry practice, Shell’s policy had been not to recognise decommissioning and restoration provisions associated 
with manufacturing facilities in Oil Products and Chemicals. This was on the basis that these assets were considered to have indefinite lives and, 
therefore, that it was considered remote that an outflow of economic benefits would be required.
In 2020, the changed macroeconomic fundamentals were considered, together with Shell’s plans to rationalise the Group’s manufacturing 
portfolio. It was also reconsidered whether it remained appropriate not to recognise decommissioning and restoration provisions for 
manufacturing facilities.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
303 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
303
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

31. Legal proceedings and other contingencies continued
It was concluded that the assumption of indefinite lives for manufacturing facilities was no longer appropriate, and the need for either recognition 
of decommissioning and restoration provisions or contingent liability disclosure was reviewed. In 2020, provisions had been recognised for certain 
shorter-lived manufacturing facilities, but for the remaining longer-lived facilities, where decommissioning would generally be more than 50 years 
away, it was concluded that, while there is a present obligation that has arisen from past events, the amount of the obligation cannot be measured 
with sufficient reliability. This conclusion was reached on the basis that the settlement dates are indeterminate; and that other estimates, such as 
extremely long-term discount rates for which there is no observable measure, are not reliable. Consequently, a decommissioning and restoration 
obligation exists that cannot be recognised or quantified and that is disclosed as a contingent liability.
Pesticide litigation 
Shell USA, Inc. (Shell USA), along with another agricultural chemical pesticide manufacturer and several distributors, has been sued by public 
and quasi-public water purveyors, water storage districts, and private landowners alleging responsibility for groundwater contamination caused 
by applications of chemical pesticides. There are approximately 34 such cases currently pending, four claims made but not yet filed, and an active 
subpoena for records. These matters assert various theories of strict liability and negligence, seeking to recover actual damages, including drinking 
well treatment and remediation costs. Most assert claims for punitive damages. While Shell USA continues to vigorously defend these actions, in 
January 2018 an environmental regulatory standard became effective in the State of California, where a majority of the suits are pending. The 
2018 standard requires public water systems state-wide to perform quarterly or monthly sampling of their drinking water sources for a chemical 
contained in certain pesticides. Water systems deemed out of compliance with the regulatory standard must take corrective action to resolve the 
exceedance or take the potable water source out of service. In response to this regulatory standard, Shell USA monitors the sampling results to 
determine the number of wells potentially impacted. Based on the claims asserted and Shell USA’s history with regard to amounts paid to resolve 
varying actions, management does not expect the outcome of the matters pending at December 31, 2022, to have a material adverse impact on 
Shell. However, there remains a high degree of uncertainty regarding the potential outcome of some of these pending lawsuits, as well as their 
potential effect on future operations, earnings, cash flows and Shell’s financial condition.
Climate change litigation
In the USA, 22 lawsuits filed by several municipalities and/or states against oil and gas companies, one industry group, and Shell plc are pending 
as of December 31, 2022. The plaintiffs seek damages for a variety of claims including harm to their public and private infrastructure from rising 
sea levels and other alleged impacts of climate change caused by the defendants’ fossil fuel products. In the Netherlands, in a case against Shell 
brought by a group of environmental non-governmental organisations (eNGOs) and individual claimants, the Court found that while Shell is not 
currently acting unlawfully, Shell must reduce the aggregate annual volume of CO
2 emissions of Shell Group operations and energy-carrying 
products sold across Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 45% (net) by the end of 2030 relative to its 2019 emissions levels (the "Dutch Court Order"). For 
Scopes 2 and 3, this is a significant best-efforts obligation. Shell has appealed that ruling. Management believes the outcome of these matters 
should be resolved in a manner favourable to Shell, but there remains a high degree of uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcome of these 
lawsuits, as well as their potential effect on future operations, earnings, cash flows and Shell’s financial condition.
In the UK, the environmental law group ClientEarth sent a pre-action letter in March 2022 threatening to commence, purportedly on behalf 
of Shell plc, a legal claim in the UK courts against Shell plc's Board of Directors (known as a "derivative action") regarding the way in which 
the Directors have allegedly handled "climate change related risk". On February 8, 2023, ClientEarth filed the claim with the English High Court 
against Shell plc and the current Board of Directors. The claim does not seek monetary relief but asks the Court to order the Directors to: (i) adopt 
and implement a different strategy to manage climate risk in compliance with their statutory duties; and (ii) comply immediately with the Dutch 
Court Order. The High Court must grant permission for ClientEarth to proceed with this claim. 
Louisiana coast litigation 
The State of Louisiana and multiple local governments have initiated 43 lawsuits against more than 200 oil and gas companies, claiming either 
current or historical oil and gas operations caused or contributed to contamination, land loss and the erosion of the Louisiana coastline. Shell 
entities are named in 14 of the suits. Although the State and local parishes fail to claim specified amounts, these claims represent potentially 
material matters. The cases are of first impression, arise out of an untested 1980 Louisiana statute and represent a novel attempt to render illegal 
operations that federal and state agencies permitted and authorised at the time. In late 2022, certain jurisdictional questions were decided by a 
federal appeals court in New Orleans, which resulted in the cases being remanded from federal court back to state court. While disappointed, 
management believes the outcome of these matters should ultimately be resolved in a manner favourable to Shell; there remains a high degree 
of uncertainty, however, concerning the scope of the claims and the ultimate outcomes, as well as their potential effects on future operations, 
earnings, cash flows, reputation and Shell’s financial condition.
NAM (Groningen gas field) litigation
Since 1963, NAM – a joint venture between Shell and ExxonMobil (50%:50%) – has been producing gas from the Groningen field, the largest 
gas field in Western Europe. After smaller tremors in the 1990s and the late 2000s, an earthquake measuring 3.6 on the Richter scale occurred 
in 2012, causing damage to properties in the affected area, and the area continues to experience tremor/earthquake-type events. NAM has 
received more than 100,000 claims for physical damage to property – the majority of which have been successfully settled. The Dutch State 
has taken over the damage-claim-handling from NAM for all claim categories (strengthening, physical damage to property, housing value loss, 
emotional damages and loss of living enjoyment), while NAM remains financially responsible. In February 2022, NAM commenced arbitral 
proceedings against the State to get clarity on these financial responsibilities. NAM still faces a declining number of claims in civil litigation from 
claimants who elect not to use the government arrangement or from claims pre-dating the governmental arrangements. These claims include but 
are not limited to housing claims where NAM was found liable for value loss, emotional damages and loss of living enjoyment and other civil 
litigation matters.
There remains a high degree of uncertainty concerning the ultimate outcomes and their potential effects on future operations, earnings, cash flows, 
reputation and Shell’s financial condition.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
304 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
304
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

31. Legal proceedings and other contingencies continued
Nigerian litigation
Shell subsidiaries and associates operating in Nigeria are parties to various environmental, non-environmental and contractual disputes brought 
in the courts of Nigeria, England and the Netherlands. These disputes are at different stages in litigation, including at the appellate stage, where 
judgements have been rendered against Shell entities in some of these disputes. If taken at face value, the aggregate amount of these judgements 
could be seen as material. Management, however, believes that once the outcomes of these matters are ultimately determined, the overall 
outcome of these disputes will be favourable to Shell. However, there remains a high degree of uncertainty regarding these cases, as well 
as their potential effect on future operations, earnings, cash flows and Shell’s financial condition.
OPL 245
On January 27, 2017, the Nigeria Federal High Court issued an Interim Order of Attachment for Oil Prospecting Licence 245 (OPL 245), pending 
the conclusion of the investigation. SNEPCO applied for and was granted a discharge of this order on constitutional and procedural grounds. Also 
in Nigeria, in March 2017, criminal charges alleging official corruption and conspiracy to commit official corruption were filed against SNEPCO, 
one current Shell employee and third parties including ENI SpA and one of its subsidiaries. Those proceedings are in abeyance. In January 2020, 
criminal charges alleging disobeying direction of law related to tax waivers were filed in Nigeria against Shell Nigeria Ultra Deep Ltd., SNEPCO, 
and third parties including Nigeria Agip Exploration Limited (NAE). Those proceedings are ongoing. In March 2017, parties alleging to be 
shareholders of Malabu Oil and Gas Company Ltd. (Malabu) filed two actions to challenge the 2011 settlement and the award of OPL 245 to 
SNEPCO and an ENI SpA subsidiary by the Federal Government of Nigeria. Both actions are currently stayed awaiting the outcome of appeals 
filed against procedural decisions. Those appeal proceedings are ongoing. On May 8, 2018, Human Environmental Development Agenda 
(HEDA) sought permission from the Federal High Court of Nigeria to apply for an order to direct the Attorney General of the Federation to revoke 
OPL 245 on grounds that the entire Malabu transaction in relation to the OPL is unconstitutional, illegal and void as it was obtained through 
fraudulent and corrupt practice. On July 3, 2019, the Nigerian Federal High Court upheld objections from SNEPCO and NAE and struck the 
lawsuit filed by HEDA. The suit was struck because of the statute of limitations and lack of jurisdiction to hear the matter. HEDA has appealed 
the judgement, which is ongoing.
On December 12, 2018, the Federal Republic of Nigeria (FRN) issued a claim form in the UK against Shell and six of its subsidiaries, ENI SpA and 
two of its subsidiaries, Malabu as well as two other entities for the amount of $1,092 million plus damages for having participated in a fraudulent 
and corrupt scheme leading to the acquisition by Shell and ENI corporate defendants in 2011 of OPL 245. The Shell entities were served with 
proceedings in April and May 2019, following which they, and other defendants, challenged the jurisdiction of the English courts. Following 
a hearing in April 2020, the English High Court rendered judgement in May 2020, dismissing the claims in England and refusing the FRN’s 
request for permission to appeal. In September 2020, the UK Court of Appeal also refused the FRN’s permission to appeal, meaning the 
case is now concluded.
On February 14, 2017, Shell plc received a notice of request for indictment from the Milan public prosecutor with respect to this matter. On 
December 20, 2017, Shell plc and four former Shell employees including one former executive were remanded to trial in Milan. On May 14, 2018, 
a trial commenced in the Court of Milan. The FRN was admitted as a civil claimant by a court decision on July 20, 2018. On September 18, 2018, 
Shell was joined to the proceedings as the civilly responsible party for the damages caused by the alleged illegal acts of the four former Shell 
employees. Three other Shell entities (Shell UK Ltd, Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Ltd. and Shell Exploration and Production 
Africa Ltd.) also joined the proceedings as responsible civile for their respective former employees at that phase of the proceedings. On March 17, 
2021, the Court of Milan acquitted the Shell entities and four former Shell employees of all charges on the grounds that there was no case to 
answer. The Court of Milan published the full grounds for its decision on June 9, 2021. The Milan public prosecutor and the FRN appealed the 
decision to the Court of Appeal. On July 19, 2022, the Milan public prosecutor withdrew its appeal, meaning the criminal case is closed and the 
acquittal of all defendants is final. On November 11, 2022, the Court of Appeal rejected the FRN’s appeal and ordered the FRN to pay legal 
costs. The Court of Appeal issued the full grounds for its decision on January 20, 2023.
On September 20, 2018, a guilty judgement was filed by the Milan Judge of the Preliminary Hearing in a separate OPL 245 fast-track trial of two 
individuals, neither of whom worked for or on behalf of Shell. That decision was appealed to the Court of Appeal which rendered its judgement on 
June 24, 2021, acquitting both individuals. Separate OPL 245 pre-trial criminal proceedings are pending against another individual who also did 
not work for or on behalf of Shell.
On October 2, 2019, the US Department of Justice (DOJ) informed Shell that it was closing its inquiry into Shell in relation to OPL 245. It is 
understood that the decision was based on the facts available to the DOJ, including ongoing legal proceedings in Europe. On April 22, 2020, 
the United States Securities and Exchange Commission notified us that it had also closed its inquiry into Shell in relation to OPL 245. On July 21, 
2022, the Dutch Public Prosecutor’s office announced it had dismissed its investigation into bribery allegations related to OPL 245.
On October 24, 2022, Re:Common, HEDA and Corner House announced that they filed a complaint at the Court of Appeal in The Hague, 
pursuant to Article 12 of the Dutch Code for Criminal Procedure, challenging the decision by the DPP to dismiss its investigation. There remains a 
high degree of uncertainty around the OPL 245 matters and contingencies discussed above, as well as their potential effect on future operations, 
earnings, cash flows and Shell’s financial condition. Accordingly, at this time, it is not practicable to estimate the magnitude and timing of 
any possible obligations or payments. Any violation of anti-bribery, anti-corruption or anti-money laundering legislation could have a material 
adverse effect on Shell plc’s earnings, cash flows and financial condition.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
305 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
305
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

32. Employees
 Employee costs
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Remuneration  10,509  9,038  9,128 
Social security contributions  860  819  793 
Retirement benefits (see Note 23)  1,795  1,696  1,851 
Share-based compensation (see Note 27)  807  539  359 
Total [A]  13,971  12,092  12,131 
[A] Excludes employees seconded to joint ventures and associates.
 Average employee numbers [A]
Thousand
2022 2021 2020
Integrated Gas 6 6 6
Upstream 12 13 15
Marketing 17 14 15
Chemicals and Products 21 22 23
Renewables and Energy Solutions 4 3 3
Corporate 27 25 25
 - of which Shell Business Service Centre (SBSC) 20 19 18
Total [B] 87 83 87
[A] Employee numbers, including comparatives, have been updated from full time equivalents (FTE) to headcount.
[B] Excludes employees seconded to joint ventures and associates (2022: 2,000 employees; 2021: 2,000 employees; 2020: 2,000 employees).
33. Directors and Senior Management
 Remuneration of Directors of the Company
$ million
 2022 2021 2020
Emoluments  12  12  6 
Value of released awards under long-term incentive plans  7  5  6 
Employer contributions to pension plans  1  1  1 
Emoluments comprise salaries and fees, annual bonuses (for the period for which performance is assessed) and other benefits. The value of 
released awards under long-term incentive plans for the period is in respect of the performance period ending in that year. In 2022, retirement 
benefits were accrued in respect of qualifying services under defined benefit plans by one Director.
Further information on the remuneration of the Directors can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 178-182.
 Directors and Senior Management expense
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Short-term benefits  33  27  14 
Retirement benefits  2  3  3 
Share-based compensation  17  16  17 
Termination and related amounts  1  2  2 
Total  53  48  36 
Directors and Senior Management comprise members of the Executive Committee and the Non-executive Directors of the Company.
Short-term benefits comprise salaries and fees, annual bonuses delivered in cash and shares (for the period for which performance is assessed), 
other benefits and employer social security contributions.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
306 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
306
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

34. Auditor’s remuneration
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Fees in respect of the audit of the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements, including audit of 
consolidation returns  45  39  36 
Other audit fees, principally in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries  18  18  17 
Total audit fees  63  57  53 
Audit-related fees  3  3  3 
Fees in respect of other non-audit services  3  3  2 
Total  69  63  58 
In addition, the auditor provided audit services to retirement benefit plans for employees of subsidiaries. Remuneration paid by those benefit plans 
amounted to $1 million in 2022 (2021: $1 million; 2020: $1 million). 
35. Post-balance sheet events
On January 30, 2023, Shell announced that it will reduce the size of its Executive Committee from nine to seven members. Under the changes, 
which are expected to take effect on July 1, 2023, Shell’s Integrated Gas and Upstream businesses will be combined to form a new Integrated 
Gas and Upstream Directorate and the Downstream business will be combined with Renewables and Energy Solutions to form a new Downstream 
and Renewables Directorate. Separately, the Strategy, Sustainability and Corporate Relations Directorate will be discontinued. The changes 
announced will not affect Shell’s financial reporting segments for the year ending December 31, 2023, which remain unchanged.
On February 2, 2023, Shell announced the commencement of a $4 billion share buyback programme covering an aggregate contract term of 
approximately three months (the "programme"). The purpose of the programme is to reduce the issued share capital of the Company. All shares 
repurchased as part of the programme will be cancelled. It is intended that, subject to market conditions, the programme will be completed prior 
to the Company’s First Quarter 2023 results announcement, scheduled for May 4, 2023. The Company has entered into an arrangement with 
a single broker consisting of three irrevocable, non-discretionary contracts, to enable the purchase of ordinary shares.
On February 20, 2023, Shell completed the acquisition of 100% of the shares of Nature Energy Biogas A/S ("Nature Energy") from Davidson 
Kempner Capital Management LP, Pioneer Point Partners and Sampension for cash consideration of nearly $2 billion. Based in Denmark, Nature 
Energy is a producer of Renewable Natural Gas from agricultural, industrial, and household wastes. In Shell's First Quarter 2023 Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows, the cash consideration paid will be reflected as an outflow through 'Cash flow from investing activities'. Measurement 
is now underway of the fair value of the net assets acquired and any goodwill to be recognised as a result of the acquisition. The acquisition 
of Nature Energy will be reported through the Marketing operating segment.
On February 28, 2023, Shell completed the sale of its 100% interest in Shell Onshore Ventures LLC, which holds a 51.8% membership interest 
in Aera Energy LLC, to IKAV. The total consideration is $2 billion with additional contingent payments based on oil prices and has an effective 
date of October 1, 2021.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
307 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
307
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

About this section
The purpose of this section is to comply with the requirements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) "Extractive Activities – Oil and 
Gas (Topic 932)". Extractive activities for this purpose include exploration and production activities to extract oil, condensates, natural gas liquids, 
oil sands and natural gas from their natural reservoirs.
In Shell, extractive activities, or oil and gas exploration and production activities, are undertaken within the Integrated Gas, the Upstream and 
the Chemicals and Products (includes oil sands) segments. Shell’s extractive activities do not represent the full extent of Integrated Gas, Upstream 
and Chemicals and Products activities, and exclude GTL, some LNG activities, trading and optimisation, as well as other non-extractive activities. 
As a result, the information in this extractive activities section is not suitable for modelling Shell’s integrated businesses, for which we refer to the 
segment information. Full segment information to the Consolidated Financial Statements is available on pages 265-269.
The information set out on pages 308-326 is referred to as "unaudited" as a means of clarifying that it is not covered by the audit opinion of the 
independent registered public accounting firm that has audited and reported on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Proved reserves
Proved reserves estimates are calculated pursuant to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rules and the FASB’s Topic 932. Proved 
reserves can be either developed or undeveloped. The definitions used are in accordance with the SEC Rule 4–10 (a) of Regulation S-X. We 
include proved reserves associated with future production that will be consumed in operations. 
Proved reserves shown are net of any quantities of crude oil or natural gas that are expected to be (or could be) taken as royalties in kind. Proved 
reserves outside North America include quantities that will be settled as royalties in cash. Proved reserves include certain quantities of crude oil or 
natural gas that will be produced under arrangements that involve Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in risks and rewards but do not 
transfer title of the product to those entities. 
Subsidiaries’ proved reserves at December 31, 2022, were divided into 75% developed and 25% undeveloped on a barrel of oil equivalent basis. 
For the Shell share of joint ventures and associates, the proved reserves at December 31, 2022, were divided into 48% developed and 52% 
undeveloped on a barrel of oil equivalent basis. 
Proved reserves are recognised under various forms of contractual agreements. Shell’s proved reserves volumes at December 31, 2022, present in 
agreements such as production-sharing contracts (PSC), tax/variable royalty contracts or other forms of economic entitlement contracts, where the 
Shell share of reserves can vary with commodity prices, were 1,920 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids, and 10,202 thousand 
million standard cubic feet (scf) of natural gas. 
Proved reserves cannot be measured exactly because estimation of reserves involves subjective judgement (see "Risk factors" on page 18 and 
our "Proved reserves assurance process" below). These estimates remain subject to revision and are unaudited supplementary information. 
Proved reserves assurance process
A central group of reserves experts, who on average have around 27 years’ experience in the oil and gas industry, undertake the primary 
assurance of the proved reserves bookings. This group of experts is part of the Resources Assurance and Reporting (RAR) organisation within Shell. 
A Vice President with 37 years’ experience in the oil and gas industry currently heads the RAR organisation. He is a member of the Society of 
Petroleum Engineers, Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers and holds a BA in mathematics from Oxford University and an MEng in Petroleum 
Engineering from Heriot-Watt University. The RAR organisation reports directly to an Executive Vice President of Finance, who is a member of the 
Upstream Reserves Committee (URC). The URC is a multidisciplinary committee consisting of senior representatives from the Finance, Legal, 
Integrated Gas and Upstream organisations. The URC reviews and endorses all major (larger than 20 million barrels of oil equivalent) proved 
reserves bookings and debookings and endorses the total aggregated proved reserves. Final approval of all proved reserves bookings remains 
with Shell’s CEO, and all proved reserves bookings are reviewed by Shell’s Audit Committee. The Internal Audit function also provides secondary 
assurance through audits of the control framework. 
Crude oil, natural gas liquids, synthetic crude oil and bitumen
Shell subsidiaries’ proved reserves of crude oil, natural gas liquids (NGLs), synthetic crude oil and bitumen at the end of the year; their share of 
the proved reserves of joint ventures and associates at the end of the year; and the changes in such reserves during the year are set out on pages 
309-312. Significant changes in these proved reserves are discussed below (except where specific disclosures are prohibited), where "revisions 
and reclassifications" are changes based on new information that resulted from development drilling, production history, and changes in 
economic factors.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited)
308 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
308
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Proved reserves 2022–2021
Shell subsidiaries 
Canada
▪ The increase of 240 million barrels in purchases was mainly in Jackpine Mine.
South America
▪ The increase of 55 million barrels in purchases was in Atapu in Brazil.
Proved reserves 2021–2020
Shell subsidiaries 
Asia 
▪ The net increase of 121 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Kashagan and Upper Salym. 
USA 
▪ The net increase of 119 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Mars and Stones. 
▪ The decrease of 136 million barrels in sales in place was in Permian.
▪ The increase of 55 million barrels in extensions and discoveries was mainly in Whale Dev.
Canada 
▪ The net decrease of 90 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Jackpine Mine and Muskeg River mine. 
South America 
▪ The net increase of 325 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications half of which was mainly in Mero.
▪ The increase of 103 million barrels in extensions and discoveries was mainly in Mero.
Europe 
▪ The increase of 67 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Schiehallion and Val d'Agri. 
Africa 
▪ The decrease of 53 million barrels in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Nigeria.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
309 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
309
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2022
 
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 208 1,521 80 265 610 5 533 1,131 3,820 533 4,353
Revisions and reclassifications 16 34 11 (18) 48 (1) (25) 47 137 (25) 112
Improved recovery — — — — — — — 32 32 — 32
Extensions and discoveries 5 13 24 — 7 1 — 11 61 — 61
Purchases of minerals in place — 12 — — — — 240 55 67 240 307
Sales of minerals in place — (1) — — — — — — (1) — (1)
Production [A] (37) (168) (9) (29) (122) (1) (17) (138) (504) (17) (521)
At December 31 192 1,411 106 218 543 4 731 1,138 3,612 731 4,343
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 7 217 — — — — — 4 228 — 228
Revisions and reclassifications (3) (23) — — — — — 1 (25) — (25)
Improved recovery — — — — — — — — — — —
Extensions and discoveries — — — — — — — 4 4 — 4
Purchases of minerals in place — 159 — — — — — — 159 — 159
Sales of minerals in place — — — — — — — — — — —
Production (1) (26) — — — — — (2) (29) — (29)
At December 31 3 327 — — — — — 7 337 — 337
Total [B] 195 1,738 106 218 543 4 731 1,145 3,949 731 4,680
Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in 
Shell subsidiaries at December 31 365 365 365
[A] Includes 1 million barrels consumed in operations for synthetic crude oil. 
[B] As announced on February 28, 2023, Shell completed the sale of its 100% interest in Shell Onshore Ventures LLC, which holds a 51.8% membership interest in Aera Energy LLC, to IKAV.
As of December 31, 2022, we had proved reserves of 112 million barrels in crude oil. For more information See Note 35 on page 307.
 Proved developed reserves 2022
 
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 140 1,348 71 218 397 2 533 786 2,962 533 3,495
At December 31 140 999 73 187 356 3 731 831 2,589 731 3,320
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 7 197 — — — — — 4 208 — 208
At December 31 3 154 — — — — — 7 164 — 164
 Proved undeveloped reserves 2022
 
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 68 173 9 47 213 3 — 345 858 — 858
At December 31 52 412 33 31 187 1 — 307 1,023 — 1,023
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 — 20 — — — — — — 20 — 20
At December 31 — 173 — — — — — — 173 — 173
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
310 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
310
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2021 
 
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 178 1,573 73 379 728 15 644 815 3,761 644 4,405
Revisions and reclassifications 67 121 18 (53) 119 — (90) 325 597 (90) 507
Improved recovery — — — — 9 — — 21 30 — 30
Extensions and discoveries 4 11 — 1 55 1 — 103 175 — 175
Purchases of minerals in place — — — — — — — — — — —
Sales of minerals in place — — — (21) (136) (8) — — (165) — (165)
Production [A] (41) (184) (11) (41) (165) (3) (21) (133) (578) (21) (599)
At December 31 208 1,521 80 265 610 5 533 1,131 3,820 533 4,353
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 6 210 — — — — — — 216 — 216
Revisions and reclassifications 2 40 — — — — — 4 46 — 46
Improved recovery — — — — — — — — — — —
Extensions and discoveries — — — — — — — 2 2 — 2
Purchases of minerals in place — — — — — — — — — — —
Sales of minerals in place — — — — — — — — — — —
Production (1) (33) — — — — — (2) (36) — (36)
At December 31 7 217 — — — — — 4 228 — 228
Total [B] 215 1,738 80 265 610 5 533 1,135 4,048 533 4,581
Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in 
Shell subsidiaries at December 31 — — — — — — 267 — — 267 267
[A] Includes 1 million barrels consumed in operations for synthetic crude oil. 
[B] As of December 31, 2021, we had proved reserves of 93 million barrels in crude oil relating to activities in Russia.
 Proved developed reserves 2021
 
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 103 1,417 69 316 539 12 644 674 3,130 644 3,774
At December 31 140 1,348 71 218 397 2 533 786 2,962 533 3,495
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 6 192 — — — — — 1 199 — 199
At December 31 7 197 — — — — — 4 208 — 208
 Proved undeveloped reserves 2021
 
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 76 156 5 63 189 3 — 141 633 — 633
At December 31 68 173 9 47 213 3 — 345 858 — 858
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 — 18 — — — — — — 18 — 18
At December 31 — 20 — — — — — — 20 — 20
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
311 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
311
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2020
 
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 274 1,551 121 395 982 18 607 1,033 4,374 607 4,981
Revisions and reclassifications (46) 181 (41) 42 (116) (2) 57 (82) (63) 57 (6)
Improved recovery — — — — — — — — — — —
Extensions and discoveries — 14 — — 27 7 — — 48 — 48
Purchases of minerals in place — 9 — — — — — — 9 — 9
Sales of minerals in place (1) — — — — — — — (1) — (1)
Production [A] (49) (182) (7) (58) (165) (9) (20) (136) (606) (20) (626)
At December 31 178 1,573 73 379 728 15 644 815 3,761 644 4,405
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 12 271 — — — — — — 283 — 283
Revisions and reclassifications (5) (27) — — — — — — (32) — (32)
Improved recovery — — — — — — — — — — —
Extensions and discoveries — — — — — — — 1 1 — 1
Purchases of minerals in place — — — — — — — — — — —
Sales of minerals in place — — — — — — — — — — —
Production (1) (34) — — — — — (1) (36) — (36)
At December 31 6 210 — — — — — — 216 — 216
Total 184 1,783 73 379 728 15 644 815 3,977 644 4,621
Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in 
Shell subsidiaries at December 31 — — — — — — 322 — — 322 322
[A] Includes 1 million barrels consumed in operations for synthetic crude oil. 
 Proved developed reserves 2020
 
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 156 1,403 106 314 641 15 607 675 3,310 607 3,917
At December 31 103 1,417 69 316 539 12 644 674 3,130 644 3,774
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 11 240 — — — — — — 251 — 251
At December 31 6 192 — — — — — 1 199 — 199
 Proved undeveloped reserves 2020
Million barrels
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
Oil and 
NGL
Oil and 
NGL
Synthetic 
crude oil
All 
products
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1 118 149 15 80 341 3 — 358 1,064 — 1,064
At December 31 76 156 5 63 189 3 — 141 633 — 633
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1 1 31 — — — — — — 32 — 32
At December 31 — 18 — — — — — — 18 — 18
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
312 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
312
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Natural gas
Shell subsidiaries’ proved reserves of natural gas at the end of the year, their share of the proved reserves of joint ventures and associates at the 
end of the year, and the changes in such reserves during the years are set out on pages 313-316. Significant changes in these proved reserves
are discussed below (except where specific disclosures are prohibited).
Volumes are not adjusted to standard heat content. Apart from integrated projects, volumes of gas are reported on an "as-sold" basis. The price 
used to calculate future revenue and cash flows from proved gas reserves is the contract price or the 12-month average on "as-sold" volumes. 
Volumes associated with integrated projects are those measured at a designated transfer point between the upstream and downstream portions 
of the integrated project. Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel.
Proved reserves 2022–2021
Shell subsidiaries 
Asia 
▪ The increase of 682 thousand million scf in purchases was mainly in Oman. 
▪ The increase of 581 thousand million scf in extensions and discoveries was mainly in Marjoram and Rosmari in Malaysia. 
▪ The decrease of 906 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly due to higher prices resulting in a lower reserves 
entitlement in production-sharing contracts.
Oceania 
▪ The increase of 959 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Surat QGC in Australia. 
▪ The increase of 453 thousand million scf in extensions and discoveries was due to FID of Crux in Australia. 
Canada
▪ The decrease of 540 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Groundbirch in Canada. 
South America
▪ The increase of 288 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Trinidad and Tobago.
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
Asia 
▪ The decrease of 776 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Lunskoye in Russia.
Proved reserves 2021–2020
Shell subsidiaries 
Asia 
▪ The increase of 559 thousand million scf in extensions and discoveries was mainly in Jerun and Timi. 
Oceania 
▪ The increase of 1,905 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Surat QGC, JanzIo and Prelude. 
Europe
▪ The increase of 838 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in Ormen Lange. 
South America
▪ The increase of 535 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications mainly in Dolphin, Starfish and Mero.
▪ The increase of 357 thousand million scf in extensions and discoveries was mainly in Cassra and Bounty.
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
Asia 
▪ The increase of 313 thousand million scf in revisions and reclassifications was mainly in South West Ampa.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
313 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
313
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2022
 
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1  2,991  9,573  5,307  2,016  615  1,540  1,753  23,795 
Revisions and reclassifications  131  (906)  959  15  22  (540)  288  (31) 
Improved recovery  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Extensions and discoveries  64  581  453  —  10  81  81  1,270 
Purchases of minerals in place  —  682  —  —  —  —  33  715 
Sales of minerals in place  —  (53)  —  —  —  —  —  (53) 
Production [A]  (302)  (799)  (770)  (190)  (126)  (125)  (336)  (2,648) 
At December 31  2,884  9,078  5,949  1,841  521  956  1,819  23,048 
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1  312  3,560  71  —  —  —  6  3,949 
Revisions and reclassifications  (3)  (776)  45  —  —  —  1  (733) 
Improved recovery  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Extensions and discoveries  —  —  77  —  —  —  3  80 
Purchases of minerals in place  —  2,549  —  —  —  —  —  2,549 
Sales of minerals in place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Production [B]  (134)  (325)  (24)  —  —  —  (3)  (486) 
At December 31  175  5,008  169  —  —  —  7  5,359 
Total [C]  3,059  14,086  6,118  1,841  521  956  1,826  28,407 
Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in 
Shell subsidiaries at December 31  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
[A] Includes 228 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations. 
[B] Includes 31 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations.
[C] As announced on February 28, 2023, Shell completed the sale of its 100% interest in Shell Onshore Ventures LLC, which holds a 51.8% membership interest in Aera Energy LLC, to IKAV. As of 
December 31, 2022, we had proved reserves of 31 Thousand million standard cubic feet. See Note 35 on page 307.
 Proved developed reserves 2022
 
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1  2,532  8,789  4,089  981  373  757  1,301  18,822 
At December 31  2,460  6,698  4,111  984  275  712  1,582  16,822 
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1  265  3,097  71  —  —  —  6  3,439 
At December 31  175  2,261  129  —  —  —  7  2,572 
Proved undeveloped reserves 2022
 
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1  459  784  1,218  1,035  242  783  452  4,973 
At December 31  424  2,380  1,838  857  246  244  237  6,226 
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1  47  463  —  —  —  —  —  510 
At December 31  —  2,747  40  —  —  —  —  2,787 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
314 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
314
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2021
 
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1  2,442  9,927  4,176  2,363  801  1,295  1,128  22,132 
Revisions and reclassifications  838  (37)  1,905  (63)  90  123  535  3,391 
Improved recovery  —  —  —  —  5  —  4  9 
Extensions and discoveries  1  559  —  126  158  277  357  1,477 
Purchases of minerals in place  1  —  —  —  —  —  —  1 
Sales of minerals in place  —  —  —  (122)  (225)  (37)  —  (384) 
Production [A]  (291)  (876)  (774)  (288)  (214)  (118)  (271)  (2,831) 
At December 31  2,991  9,573  5,307  2,016  615  1,540  1,753  23,795 
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1  262  3,678  41  —  —  —  1  3,982 
Revisions and reclassifications  210  313  51  —  —  —  3  577 
Improved recovery  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Extensions and discoveries  —  —  —  —  —  —  2  2 
Purchases of minerals in place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Sales of minerals in place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Production [B]  (160)  (431)  (21)  —  —  —  —  (612) 
At December 31  312  3,560  71  —  —  —  6  3,949 
Total [C]  3,303  13,133  5,378  2,016  615  1,540  1,759  27,744 
Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in 
Shell subsidiaries at December 31  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
[A] Includes 232 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations. 
[B] Includes 41 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations. 
[C] As of December 31, 2021, we had proved reserves of 980 thousand million cubic feet in natural gas relating to activities in Russia.
 Proved developed reserves 2021
 
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1  1,590  9,675  3,656  1,341  670  720  924  18,576 
At December 31  2,532  8,789  4,089  981  373  757  1,301  18,822 
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1  227  3,175  42  —  —  —  1  3,445 
At December 31  265  3,097  71  —  —  —  6  3,439 
 Proved undeveloped reserves 2021
 
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1  852  252  520  1,022  132  575  203  3,556 
At December 31  459  784  1,218  1,035  242  783  452  4,973 
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1  35  502  —  —  —  —  —  537 
At December 31  47  463  —  —  —  —  —  510 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
315 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
315
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Proved developed and undeveloped reserves 2020
 
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1  2,998  10,618  8,360  2,608  1,868  1,281  1,259  28,992 
Revisions and reclassifications  (209)  249  (3,512)  93  (319)  59  162  (3,477) 
Improved recovery  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Extensions and discoveries  —  2  33  5  66  122  —  228 
Purchases of minerals in place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Sales of minerals in place  (28)  (29)  —  —  (542)  —  —  (599) 
Production [A]  (319)  (913)  (705)  (343)  (272)  (167)  (293)  (3,012) 
At December 31  2,442  9,927  4,176  2,363  801  1,295  1,128  22,132 
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1  595  4,198  36  —  —  —  —  4,829 
Revisions and reclassifications  (200)  (62)  27  —  —  —  1  (234) 
Improved recovery  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Extensions and discoveries  —  1  —  —  —  —  1  2 
Purchases of minerals in place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Sales of minerals in place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Production [B]  (133)  (459)  (22)  —  —  —  (1)  (615) 
At December 31  262  3,678  41  —  —  —  1  3,982 
Total  2,703  13,605  4,219  2,363  801  1,295  1,128  26,114 
Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in 
Shell subsidiaries at December 31  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
[A] Includes 225 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations.
[B] Includes 42 thousand million standard cubic feet consumed in operations.
 Proved developed reserves 2020
 
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1  2,060  10,091  5,769  1,523  1,615  781  968  22,807 
At December 31  1,590  9,675  3,656  1,341  670  720  924  18,576 
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1  555  3,519  36  —  —  —  —  4,110 
At December 31  227  3,175  42  —  —  —  1  3,445 
 Proved undeveloped reserves 2020
 
Thousand million standard cubic feet
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Shell subsidiaries
At January 1  937  528  2,591  1,085  254  499  291  6,185 
At December 31  852  252  520  1,022  132  575  203  3,556 
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
At January 1  39  680  —  —  —  —  —  719 
At December 31  35  502  —  —  —  —  —  537 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
316 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
316
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Standardised measure of discounted future cash flows 
The SEC Form 20-F requires the disclosure of a standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows, relating to proved reserves quantities 
and based on a 12-month unweighted arithmetic average sales price, calculated on a first-day-of-the-month basis, with cost factors based on those 
at the end of each year, currently enacted tax rates and a 10% annual discount factor. In our view, the information so calculated does not provide 
a reliable measure of future cash flows from proved reserves, nor does it permit a realistic comparison to be made of one entity with another 
because the assumptions used cannot reflect the varying circumstances within each entity. In addition, a substantial but unknown proportion of 
future real cash flows from oil and gas production activities is expected to derive from reserves which have already been discovered, but which 
cannot yet be regarded as proved. 
Standardised measure of discounted future cash flows relating to proved reserves at December 31
 2022 – Shell subsidiaries 
 
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Future cash inflows 82,513 157,030 67,551 28,054 52,231 66,059 115,529 568,967
Future production costs 16,781 32,416 22,764 9,762 23,546 28,520 46,947 180,736
Future development costs 6,125 15,240 8,696 3,004 7,720 5,269 15,917 61,971
Future tax expenses 43,626 50,771 6,917 9,670 3,821 7,004 15,074 136,883
Future net cash flows 15,981 58,603 29,174 5,618 17,144 25,266 37,591 189,377
Effect of discounting cash flows at 10% 5,193 25,770 10,529 1,580 4,056 17,478 13,104 77,710
Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows 10,788 32,833 18,645 4,038 13,088 7,788 24,487 111,667
Non-controlling Interest Included — — — — — 3,314 — 3,314
 2022 – Shell share of joint ventures and associates
 
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Future cash inflows 6,576 86,464 1,227 — — — 577 94,844
Future production costs 3,626 31,569 760 — — — 162 36,117
Future development costs 778 7,139 536 — — — 15 8,468
Future tax expenses 2,257 34,551 — — — — 81 36,889
Future net cash flows (85) 13,205 (69) — — — 319 13,370
Effect of discounting cash flows at 10% 85 6,152 (130) — — — 67 6,174
Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows (170) 7,053 61 — — — 252 7,196
 2021 – Shell subsidiaries
 
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Future cash inflows 37,801 115,068 37,462 22,663 41,431 34,835 81,239 370,499
Future production costs 11,977 30,567 13,446 8,742 23,314 15,565 35,787 139,398
Future development costs 5,347 12,989 6,718 3,078 7,787 4,063 16,130 56,112
Future tax expenses 12,311 28,834 2,206 7,584 1,572 3,153 7,829 63,489
Future net cash flows 8,166 42,678 15,092 3,259 8,758 12,054 21,493 111,500
Effect of discounting cash flows at 10% 1,754 18,771 4,205 497 1,207 7,331 7,270 41,035
Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows 6,412 23,907 10,887 2,762 7,551 4,723 14,223 70,465
Non-controlling Interest Included — — — — — 1,906 — 1,906
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
317 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
317
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 2021 – Shell share of joint ventures and associates
 
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Future cash inflows 4,006 36,365 326 — — — 283 40,980
Future production costs 2,869 15,653 245 — — — 128 18,895
Future development costs 931 6,819 82 — — — 15 7,847
Future tax expenses 1,623 6,229 — — — — 9 7,861
Future net cash flows (1,417) 7,664 (1) — — — 131 6,377
Effect of discounting cash flows at 10% (316) 1,630 (29) — — — 34 1,319
Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows (1,101) [A] 6,034 28 — — — 97 5,058
[A] While proved reserves are economically producible at the 2021 yearly average price, the standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows was negative for those proved reserves
at December 31, 2021, due to addition of overhead, tax and abandonment costs and ongoing commitments post production of proved reserves. 
 2020 – Shell subsidiaries
 
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Future cash inflows 16,581 75,128 23,787 19,743 27,891 22,447 34,502 220,079
Future production costs 6,776 26,896 10,240 9,837 20,341 15,475 19,137 108,702
Future development costs 4,352 12,416 7,441 3,354 7,274 4,559 7,440 46,836
Future tax expenses 4,525 12,585 254 4,713 54 407 1,847 24,385
Future net cash flows 928 23,231 5,852 1,838 222 2,006 6,079 40,156
Effect of discounting cash flows at 10% 338 9,792 493 (50) (1,469) 1,231 1,369 11,704
Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows 590 13,440 5,359 [A] 1,889 1,691 775 4,709 28,452 [B]
Non-controlling interest included — — — — — 398 — 398
[A] Corrected from 6,719.
[B] Corrected from 29,813.
 2020 – Shell share of joint ventures and associates
 
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Future cash inflows 1,209 22,209 139 — — — 21 23,578
Future production costs 2,801 11,472 136 — — — 17 14,426
Future development costs 948 5,165 111 — — — 2 6,226
Future tax expenses — 3,026 — — — — — 3,026
Future net cash flows (2,540) 2,546 (108) — — — 2 (100)
Effect of discounting cash flows at 10% (583) 412 (35) — — — — (206)
Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows (1,957) [A] 2,134 (73) — — — 2 106
[A] While proved reserves are economically producible at the 2020 yearly average price, the standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows was negative for those proved reserves
at December 31, 2020, due to addition of overhead, tax and abandonment costs and ongoing commitments post production of proved reserves. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
318 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
318
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Change in standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved reserves
 2022
 
$ million
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share
of joint ventures
and associates Total
At January 1 70,465 5,058 75,523
Net changes in prices and production costs 107,637 10,441 118,078
Revisions of previous reserves estimates 12,378 (5,544) 6,834
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery 7,422 439 7,861
Purchases and sales of minerals in place 3,187 10,374 13,561
Development cost related to future production (11,233) (1,619) (12,852)
Sales and transfers of oil and gas, net of production costs (54,486) (7,029) (61,515)
Development cost incurred during the year 10,079 1,545 11,624
Accretion of discount 9,796 888 10,684
Net change in income tax (43,578) (7,357) (50,935)
At December 31 111,667 7,196 118,863
 2021
 
$ million
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share
of joint ventures
and associates Total
At January 1 28,452 106 28,558
Net changes in prices and production costs 74,896 9,188 84,084
Revisions of previous reserves estimates 19,435 3,253 22,688
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery 5,631 60 5,691
Purchases and sales of minerals in place (880) — (880)
Development cost related to future production (10,652) (982) (11,634)
Sales and transfers of oil and gas, net of production costs (35,754) (4,455) (40,209)
Development cost incurred during the year 8,594 969 9,563
Accretion of discount 3,832 170 4,002
Net change in income tax (23,089) (3,251) (26,340)
At December 31 70,465 5,058 75,523
 2020
 
$ million
Shell
subsidiaries
Shell share
of joint ventures
and associates Total
At January 1 72,854 4,893 77,747
Net changes in prices and production costs (71,184) (6,097) (77,281)
Revisions of previous reserves estimates 574 (459) 115
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery 691 17 709
Purchases and sales of minerals in place (540) — (540)
Development cost related to future production 2,906 (426) 2,480
Sales and transfers of oil and gas, net of production costs (16,990) (1,954) (18,944)
Development cost incurred during the year 8,197 759 8,956
Accretion of discount 9,881 832 10,713
Net change in income tax 22,063 2,541 24,604
At December 31 28,452 [A] 106 28,558 [B]
[A] Corrected from 29,813.
[B] Corrected from 29,919.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
319 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
319
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Oil and gas exploration and production activities capitalised costs
The aggregate amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, relating to oil and gas exploration and 
production activities, and the aggregate amount of the related depreciation, depletion and amortisation at December 31, are shown in the 
tables below.
Shell subsidiaries
 
$ million
2022 2021
Cost
Proved properties [A]  251,173  261,085 
Unproved properties  11,641  12,754 
Support equipment and facilities  11,329  11,067 
 274,143  284,906 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation
Proved properties [A]  149,884  156,554 
Unproved properties  5,238  5,660 
Support equipment and facilities  6,241  5,891 
 161,363  168,105 
Net capitalised costs  112,780  116,801 
[A] Includes capitalised asset decommissioning and restoration costs and related depreciation.
Shell share of joint ventures and associates 
 
$ million
2022 2021
Cost
Proved properties [A]  46,244  52,762 
Unproved properties  1,528  1,853 
Support equipment and facilities  4,577  4,982 
 52,349  59,597 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation
Proved properties [A]  34,683  38,844 
Unproved properties  452  452 
Support equipment and facilities  3,023  3,182 
 38,158  42,478 
Net capitalised costs  14,191  17,119 
[A] Includes capitalised asset decommissioning and restoration costs and related depreciation.
Oil and gas exploration and production activities costs incurred 
Costs incurred during the year in oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development activities, whether capitalised or charged to 
income currently, are shown in the tables below. As a result of the adoption of IFRS 16 Leases as of January 1, 2019, leases are included in all 
years shown below. Development costs include capitalised asset decommissioning and restoration costs (including increases or decreases arising 
from changes to cost estimates or to the discount rate applied to the obligations) and exclude costs of acquiring support equipment and facilities, 
but include depreciation thereon.
Shell subsidiaries
2022
 
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Other [A] Total
Acquisition of properties
Proved  (1)  —  —  102  —  —  184  285 
Unproved  —  —  —  (1)  66  8  27  100 
Exploration  422  141  21  259  721  140  591  2,295 
Development  981  1,001  547  727  1,951  213  3,966  9,386 
[A] Comprises Canada, Mexico and Barbados.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
320 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
320
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

2021
$ million
North America South 
America
 
Europe Asia Oceania Africa USA Other [A] Total
Acquisition of properties
Proved  2  —  —  246  —  —  —  247 
Unproved  —  —  —  2  26  34  42  103 
Exploration  298 [B]  106 [B]  26  136  920  217  170  1,873 
Development  996  693  600  166  3,116  106  1,436  7,113 
[A] Comprises Canada and Mexico.
[B] As revised, following a reassessment.
2020
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Other [A] Total
Acquisition of properties
Proved  4  156  —  5  —  —  —  165 
Unproved  115  19  —  48  80  6  180  448 
Exploration  271 [B]  118 [B]  33  168  951  275  390  2,206 
Development  1,612  1,018  1,465  807  4,186  325  1,930  11,343 
[A] Comprises Canada and Mexico.
[B] As revised, following a reassessment.
Shell share of joint ventures and associates 
Joint ventures and associates did not incur costs in the acquisition of oil and gas properties in 2022 and 2021. 
2022
 
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Other Total
Exploration  —  50  3  —  —  —  51  104 
Development  (8)  2,250  246  —  —  —  87  2,575 
2021
 
$ million
North America South 
AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Other Total
Exploration  —  69  1  —  —  —  41  111 
Development  101  1,648  205  —  —  —  49  2,002 
2020
 
$ million
North America South
 America
 
Europe Asia Oceania Africa USA Other Total
Acquisition of properties
Unproved  —  —  —  —  —  — 128 128
Exploration  —  94  10  —  —  — 105 209
Development  124  2,225 [A]  67  —  —  —  2  2,418 [A]
[A] As revised, following a reassessment.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
321 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
321
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Oil and gas exploration and production activities earnings
In Shell, extractive activities, or oil and gas exploration and production activities, are undertaken within the Integrated Gas, the Upstream and 
the Chemicals and Products segments. Shell’s extractive activities do not represent the full extent of Integrated Gas, Upstream and Chemicals 
and Products activities, and exclude GTL, some LNG activities, trading and optimisation, as well as other non-extractive activities.
The earnings disclosed in this "extractive activities" section are only a subset of Shell’s total earnings and as a result are not suitable for modelling 
Shell’s integrated businesses, for which we refer to the full segment earnings and descriptions of Integrated Gas, Upstream and Chemicals and 
Products. These are available on pages 39, 45, and 66 respectively. The earnings disclosed in this "extractive activities" section are not adjusted 
for items such as impairment charges, restructuring charges and charges for onerous contract provisions. Full segment information to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements is available on pages 265-269.
The results of operations for oil and gas producing activities are shown in the tables below. Taxes other than income tax include royalties in cash 
to governments, without option to pay in kind outside USA and Canada. 
Shell subsidiaries
 2022
 
$ million
North America South
 AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Other [A] Total
Revenue
Third parties  1,986  3,832  1,394  2,173  257  888  2,459  12,989 
Sales between businesses  11,115  14,503  8,457  2,013  12,221  2,713  12,107  63,129 
Total  13,101  18,335  9,851  4,186  12,478  3,601  14,566  76,118 
Production costs excluding taxes  2,151  1,956  1,331  825  1,556  731  1,331  9,881 
Taxes other than income tax  102  831  688  238  (3)  —  3,837  5,693 
Exploration  274  121  74  233  621  92  297  1,712 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  1,468  2,090  (211)  1,090  4,462  403  1,722  11,024 
Other costs/(income)  3,772  1,089  135  (336)  629  1,557  1,030  7,876 
Earnings before taxation  5,334  12,248  7,834  2,136  5,213  818  6,349  39,932 
Taxation charge/(credit)  5,151  7,561  3,025  527  739  229  1,681  18,913 
Earnings after taxation  183  4,687  4,809  1,609  4,474  589  4,668  21,019 
[A] Comprises Canada, Mexico and Barbados.
 2021
 
$ million
North America South
 AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Other [A] Total
Revenue
Third parties  1,502  3,084 [B]  681  1,849  3,411  816  1,167 [B]  12,510 [B]
Sales between businesses  5,524  11,107  5,256  2,214  8,009  1,815  8,249  42,174 
Total  7,026  14,191 [B]  5,937  4,063  11,420  2,631  9,416 [B]  54,684 [B]
Production costs excluding taxes  1,892  1,817  1,222  1,013  2,165  679  1,045  9,833 
Taxes other than income tax  77  858 [B]  234  250  120  —  2,847 [B]  4,386 [B]
Exploration  239 [B]  73 [B]  21  133  616  191  150  1,423 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  1,342  2,817  1,805  1,227  5,201  181  3,973  16,546 
Other costs/(income)  3,747 [B]  1,330 [B]  (155)  (349)  (2,550)  1,045  233  3,301 
Earnings before taxation  (271) [B]  7,296 [B]  2,810  1,789  5,868  535  1,168  19,195 
Taxation charge/(credit)  494 [B]  4,452 [B]  831  35  1,268  180  256  7,516 
Earnings after taxation  (765) [B]  2,844 [B]  1,979  1,754  4,600  355  912  11,679 
[A] Comprises Canada and Mexico. 
[B] As revised, following a reassessment.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
322 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
322
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 2020
 
$ million
North America South
 AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Other [A] Total
Revenue
Third parties  734 [B]  2,128 [B]  589  1,540  1,008  753  546 [B]  7,298 [B]
Sales between businesses  2,879  6,792  3,366  1,816  5,239  943  4,656  25,691 
Total  3,613 [B]  8,920 [B]  3,955  3,356  6,247  1,696  5,202 [B]  32,989 [B]
Production costs excluding taxes  2,023  1,811  1,040  1,064  2,615  735  936  10,224 
Taxes other than income tax  31 [B]  413 [B]  93  245  64  —  1,473 [B]  2,319 [B]
Exploration  240 [B]  165 [B]  234  202  325  108  473  1,747 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  3,618  2,120  10,178  2,589  7,927  2,147  6,282  34,861 
Other costs/(income)  463 [B]  1,649 [B]  314  645  230  631  161  4,093 
Earnings before taxation  (2,762) [B]  2,762 [B]  (7,904)  (1,389)  (4,914)  (1,925)  (4,123)  (20,255) 
Taxation charge/(credit)  (423)  1,854  (3,175)  (104)  (790)  (449)  (300)  (3,387) 
Earnings after taxation  (2,339) [B]  908 [B]  (4,729)  (1,285)  (4,124)  (1,476)  (3,823)  (16,868) 
[A] Comprises Canada, Honduras and Mexico.
[B] As revised, following a reassessment.
Shell share of joint ventures and associates
 2022
 
$ million
North America South
 AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Third-party revenue  2,899  5,997  190  —  —  —  219  9,305 
Total  2,899  5,997  190  —  —  —  219  9,305 
Production costs excluding taxes  289  617  97  —  —  —  23  1,026 
Taxes other than income tax  231  1,402  18  —  —  —  25  1,676 
Exploration  1  26  —  —  —  —  —  27 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  155  2,910  46  —  —  —  47  3,158 
Other costs/(income)  (2,061)  184  14  —  (2)  —  18  (1,847) 
Earnings before taxation  4,284  858  15  —  2  —  106  5,265 
Taxation charge  2,958  1,437  —  —  1  —  22  4,418 
Earnings after taxation  1,326  (579)  15  —  1  —  84  847 
 2021
 
$ million
North America South
 AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Third-party revenue  1,632  5,236 [A]  78  —  —  —  102  7,048 [A]
Total  1,632  5,236 [A]  78  —  —  —  102  7,048 [A]
Production costs excluding taxes  246  770  82  —  —  —  9  1,107 
Taxes other than income tax  48  900  7  —  —  —  12  967 
Exploration  2  27  —  —  —  —  —  29 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  254  1,262  32  —  —  —  38  1,586 
Other costs/(income)  732  118 [A]  (22)  —  (8)  —  11  831 [A]
Earnings before taxation  350  2,159  (21)  —  8  —  32  2,528 
Taxation charge  62  877  —  —  2  —  (2)  939 
Earnings after taxation  288  1,282 [A]  (21)  —  6  —  34  1,589 [A]
[A] As revised, following a reassessment.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
323 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
323
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 2020
 
$ million
North America South
 AmericaEurope Asia Oceania Africa USA Canada Total
Third-party revenue  514  3,313 [A]  65  —  —  —  32  3,924 
Total  514  3,313 [A]  65  —  —  —  32  3,924 
Production costs excluding taxes  272  726  72  —  —  —  8  1,078 
Taxes other than income tax  22  423  5  —  —  —  4  454 
Exploration  2  97  —  —  —  —  —  99 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  366  1,219  270  —  (7)  —  23  1,871 
Other costs/(income)  296  214 [A]  (14)  —  (1)  —  12  507 
Earnings before taxation  (444)  634  (268)  —  8  —  (15)  (85) 
Taxation charge  (281)  162  —  —  2  —  (9)  (126) 
Earnings after taxation  (163)  472 [A]  (268)  —  6  —  (6)  41 
[A] As revised, following a reassessment.
Acreage and wells
The tables below reflect acreage and wells of Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. The term "gross" refers to the total activity in which 
Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates have an interest. The term "net" refers to the sum of the fractional interests owned by Shell 
subsidiaries plus the Shell share of joint ventures and associates’ fractional interests. Data below are rounded to the nearest whole number. 
Oil and gas acreage (at December 31)
 
Thousand Acres
2022 2021 2020
Developed Undeveloped Developed Undeveloped Developed Undeveloped
Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
Europe  6,008  1,873  6,121  3,095  6,022 [A]  1,880 [A]  8,083 [B]  3,839 [B]  6,075  1,900  13,399  5,663 
Asia  20,678  7,370  33,382  18,524  21,360  7,651  31,620  17,022  21,360  7,651  34,545  18,003 
Oceania  2,368  854  8,978  4,940  2,343 [C]  839 [C]  9,714 [D]  5,237 [D]  2,323 [E]  824 [E]  9,977 [F]  5,418 [F]
Africa  3,086  1,141  71,934  37,199  3,937  1,457  71,398  35,633  4,764  1,996  67,197  36,944 
North 
America - 
USA  486  286  2,180  1,457  487  286  2,049  1,555  1,145  728  1,916  1,408 
North 
America - 
Mexico  —  —  5,406  3,335  —  —  5,407  3,335  —  —  5,178  3,291 
North 
America - 
Canada  379  209  1,126  626  367 [G]  208 [G]  1,326 [H]  821 [H]  498 [I]  338 [I]  1,681 [J]  1,175 [J]
South 
America  1,669  755  26,156  14,393  1,463  616  23,467  12,629  1,449  609  20,037  11,709 
Total  34,674  12,488  155,283  83,569  35,979  12,937  153,064  80,071  37,614  14,046  153,930  83,611 
[A] Corrected from 6,009 Gross (1,875 Net).
[B] Corrected from 8,090 Gross (3,833 Net).
[C] Corrected from 2485 Gross (947 Net).
[D] Corrected from 9577 Gross (5132 Net).
[E] Corrected from 2653 Gross (993 Net).
[F] Corrected from 9654 Gross (5256 Net).
[G]  Corrected from 359 Gross (206 Net).
[H] Corrected from 1334 Gross (823 Net).
[I] Corrected from 490 Gross (336 Net).
[J] Corrected from 1689 Gross (1177 Net).
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
324 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
324
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Number of productive wells [A] (at December 31)
 
2022  2021  2020 
Oil Gas Oil Gas Oil Gas
Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
Europe  749  199  963  306  796  193  1,021  324  814  197  1,047  335 
Asia  8,147  2,837  316  201  8,804 [B]  3,213 [B]  362 [C]  209 [C]  8,492 [D]  3,100 [D]  340 [E]  192 [E]
Oceania  —  —  3,382  1,964  —  —  3,398  1,974  —  —  3,369  1,920 
Africa  321  106  84  34  391  126  114  56  567  235  209  141 
North America – USA  13,021  6,617  26  18  13,042  6,627  28  20  14,505  7,402  401  223 
North America – Canada  —  —  530  459  —  —  510  440  —  —  757  684 
South America  294  145  69  40  229  112  67  39  179  82  63  37 
Total  22,532  9,904  5,370  3,022  23,262  10,271  5,500  3,062  24,557  11,016  6,186  3,532 
[A] The number of productive wells with multiple completions at December 31, 2022, was 869 Gross (400 Net); December 31, 2021: 956 Gross (427 Net); December 31, 2020: 956 Gross
(416 Net). 
[B] Corrected from 8,819 Gross (3,219 Net).
[C] Corrected from 364 Gross (210 Net).
[D] Corrected from 8,505 Gross (3,105 Net).
[E] Corrected from 342 Gross (193 Net).
 Number of net productive wells and dry holes drilled [A]
 
2022 2021 2020
Productive Dry Productive Dry Productive Dry
Exploratory [A]
Europe 5 2 — — — 1
Asia 4 5 5 10 10 8
Oceania 20 1 — 2 — 6
Africa — 2 — 11 5 7
North America - USA — 5 3 39 57 81
North America - Canada — — — 15 17 1
South America 18 2 5 1 5 3
Total 47 17 13 78 94 107
Development
Europe 3 — 3 1 5 —
Asia 217 — 218 — 169 —
Oceania 84 1 7 — 20 —
Africa 5 — 6 — 19 —
North America - USA 54 — 46 — 110 —
North America - Canada 22 — — — — —
South America 23 — 31 — 14 —
Total 408 1 311 1 337 —
[A] Productive wells are wells with proved reserves allocated. Wells in the process of drilling are excluded and presented separately below.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
325 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
325
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Number of wells in the process of exploratory drilling [A]
 
2022
At January 1
Wells in the process 
of drilling at January 
1 and allocated 
proved reserves 
during the year
Wells in the process of 
drilling at January 1 and 
determined as dry 
during the year
New wells in the 
process of drilling at 
December 31 At December 31
Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
Europe  12  8  (5)  (5)  (1)  (1)  3  3  9  5 
Asia  53  20  (5)  (3)  (11)  (3)  23  8  60  22 
Oceania  68  30  (36)  (18)  (2)  (1)  41  20  71  31 
Africa  19  11  1  20  11 
North America - USA  11  9  (4)  (3)  4  3  11  9 
North America - Canada  6  6  6  6 
South America  29  11  (18)  (7)  (2)  (1)  15  7  24  10 
Total  192  89  (64)  (33)  (20)  (9)  93  47  201  94 
[A] Wells in the process of exploratory drilling includes wells pending further evaluation.
 Number of wells in the process of development drilling
 
2022
At January 1 At December 31
Gross Net Gross Net
Europe 1 1 2 1
Asia 38 20 29 16
Oceania 181 111 282 184
Africa 5 2 1 1
North America - USA 9 6 21 12
North America - Canada 6 5 6 5
South America 46 30 18 7
Total 286 175 359 226
In addition to the present activities mentioned above, the following recovery methods are operational in the following countries: water flooding 
(Brazil (including water alternating gas), Brunei, Malaysia, Nigeria, Oman, the UK and the USA); gas injection (Brazil, Brunei, Kazakhstan, 
Malaysia, Nigeria and Oman); steam injection (the Netherlands, Oman and the USA), and polymer flooding (Oman). 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) continued
326 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
326
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Understanding the EU taxonomy
What is the EU taxonomy?
Regulation EU 2020/852 (the "Taxonomy Regulation") is a 
classification system for determining when an economic activity 
can be considered environmentally sustainable according to 
EU standards. It aims to encourage investment in a low-carbon 
economy by creating common definitions of sustainability and 
mandatory disclosures to help investors make informed decisions.
How does it work?
Non-financial companies screen their eligible activities against the 
taxonomy’s technical criteria for environmental sustainability and 
minimum safeguards. This allows them to calculate the share of 
revenue (turnover), capital expenditure (capex) and operating 
expenditure (opex) that can be classified as aligned.
Why does Shell report voluntarily?
Shell supports the EU’s ambition to achieve net zero emissions, 
which aligns with our own target to become a net-zero emissions 
energy business by 2050. We report against the taxonomy 
voluntarily because we recognise the importance of increasing 
transparency about how companies are progressing in the energy 
transition, even if the regulation is evolving and not yet mature. 
What is the reporting scope?
The taxonomy’s reporting scope covers Shell’s global business, 
based on the financial consolidation boundary. Shell’s eligible 
activities include elements of our chemicals, power, hydrogen, 
biofuels, electric vehicle charging, carbon capture and storage 
(CCS) and nature-based solutions (NBS) businesses. Our 
remaining businesses are non-eligible.
How does it compare with Shell's other disclosures?
The taxonomy's reporting basis differs from that used in our 
financial statements, which are based on International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS). For example, it does not recognise 
our interests in equity accounted joint ventures and associates, 
goodwill, feasibility expenses or integrated value chains. These 
and other differences result in lower reported turnover, capex and 
opex under the taxonomy compared to our other disclosures. 
What is the significance of the technical criteria?
The taxonomy’s technical criteria recognise stringent levels of 
environmental performance rather than transitional steps or 
alternative pathways. Due to their complexity and reliance on 
EU standards, the criteria can be difficult to interpret and apply, 
especially for activities outside the EU. 
What share of Shell's business is eligible and aligned?
In 2022, Shell’s eligible turnover was 3%, capex was 21% and 
opex was 16%. At present, there is a lack of consensus in the 
market about how to interpret various aspects of the technical 
screening criteria. Shell elects to take a prudent approach, which 
for 2022 implies zero alignment. However, we assess elements 
of our solar, wind, hydrogen, low-carbon road transport and 
renewable energy technology activities to be close to alignment. 
When fully aligned, this would result in a range of 0.1-0.2% for 
turnover, 9-10% for capex and 0.3-1.5% for opex.
What is Shell doing to increase transparency? 
The taxonomy does not, in our view, provide a complete picture 
of Shell's low-carbon business. Nevertheless, we support efforts 
to improve the framework and advance climate-related disclosure 
more broadly. For more information, see "Our Journey to Net Zero" 
on pages 78-105.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure
Installation of renewable 
energy technologies
7.6
Electricity from fossil gas4.29
Electricity from wind
Electricity from solar
Manufacture of chemicals
Manufacture of plastics
Infrastructure enabling 
low-carbon road transport
Transport of CO
2
Storage of CO 2
4.1
4.3
3.14
3.17
6.15
5.11
5.12
Scope of taxonomy-eligible activities
Eligible
projects
Manufacturing
Power
generation
Power
generation
Transport
& storage
Infastructure
B2C
solutions
Trading
Trading and
B2B/B2C sales
Carbon
capture
Retail power
and hydrogen
sales
B2B/B2C
solutions
Feedstock
(biofuels only)
Decarbonisation
of non-eligible
activities
Conservation forestry1.4
Manufacture of hydrogen
Manufacture of biogas 
and biofuels
3.10
4.13
Trading and
B2B/B2C sales
Non-eligible
products
Non-eligible
projects
Equity
accounted
JVAs
Feasibility
Feasibility
Feasibility
Feasibility
Feasibility
Feasibility
Feasibility
Feasibility
Equity
accounted
JVAs
Equity
accounted
JVAs
Equity
accounted
JVAs
Equity
accounted
JVAs
Equity
accounted
JVAs
Equity
accounted
JVAs
Equity
accounted
JVAs
Manufacturing
Trading
Trading
Upstream,
midstream,
LNG, GTL
B2B  Business-to-Business B2C  Business-to-Consumer JVA  Joint Ventures & Associates LNG  Liquiﬁed Natural Gas GTL  Gas-to-Liquids  
Taxonomy-eligible
Taxonomy non-eligible
327
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Overview
The EU taxonomy is a classification system that translates the European 
Union’s environmental objectives into criteria for determining when an 
economic activity can be considered environmentally sustainable for 
investment purposes. 
The taxonomy is designed as a transparency tool to enable investors to 
compare companies and investment portfolios on a consistent basis. It 
is not a mandatory list of activities for investors to invest in, nor does it 
set mandatory environmental performance requirements for companies 
or financial products. 
The taxonomy framework
The Taxonomy Regulation establishes technical criteria for 
environmental sustainability across more than 100 economic activities 
and six environmental objectives. So far, criteria have been approved 
for activities contributing to the first two objectives, climate change 
mitigation and climate change adaptation. Criteria for the four 
remaining objectives – water, circular economy, pollution control 
and biodiversity – are expected to be adopted by the EU in 2023.
An activity is "taxonomy-eligible" if it is described in a delegated act 
adopted under the Taxonomy Regulation. Such an activity is eligible 
irrespective of whether it complies with the technical screening criteria. 
An activity is "taxonomy-aligned" if it contributes substantially to one 
or more environmental objectives, does no significant harm to any of 
the other objectives, is carried out in compliance with minimum human 
and labour rights safeguards, and complies with the relevant technical 
screening criteria.
The taxonomy’s disclosure requirements have been phased-in over two 
years. In 2021, the first year of reporting, non-financial undertakings 
were required to disclose the total share of turnover, capex and opex 
associated with their eligible activities. From 2022, they are required to 
disclose detailed activity-level data on eligibility and alignment as well 
as additional contextual information.
The EU has stated that the taxonomy will develop over time. The fact 
that an activity is not recognised as substantially contributing to one of 
the EU’s environmental objectives does not necessarily mean it is not 
sustainable. In addition, not all activities with the potential to make 
a substantial contribution to the environmental objectives are yet 
included in the framework.
As a UK company with its registered office and headquarters in 
London, Shell plc is not currently subject to the Taxonomy Regulation. 
We expect to come into scope in 2024 via the EU’s Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), which extends the Taxonomy 
Regulation’s reporting obligation to third country issuers that list on 
European exchanges. 
Our eligibility
In 2022, Shell’s taxonomy-eligible turnover was $12 billion, capex was 
$6.7 billion and opex was $0.8 billion. Eligible capex increased by 
$2.2 billion in 2022 compared to the previous year, driven by higher 
expenditure for wind, solar, low-carbon road transport and hydrogen. 
Opex remained steady. Turnover decreased by $3 billion, mainly due 
to lower chemicals revenues.
Eligible capex as a share of total capex increased to 21% in 2022 from 
18% in 2021. Opex increased to 16% in 2022 from 15% in 2021 due in 
part to lower non-eligible expenditure. Turnover is particularly sensitive 
to the performance of our non-eligible businesses, decreasing to 3% 
in 2022 from 6% in 2021 due to a combination of lower chemicals 
revenue and a 50% increase in turnover for non-eligible activities 
driven by higher commodity prices.
At present, there is a lack of consensus in the market about how to 
interpret various aspects of the technical screening criteria. In view of 
these uncertainties, Shell elects to take an approach which for 2022 
implies zero alignment. However, we assess elements of our solar, 
wind, hydrogen, low-carbon road transport and renewable energy 
technology activities to be close to alignment. When fully aligned, this 
would result in a range of 0.1-0.2% for turnover, 9-10% for capex and 
0.3-1.5% for opex.
Basis of preparation
Shell seeks to prepare its disclosure in accordance with Delegated 
Regulation EU 2021/2178 (the "Disclosures Delegated Act") as well as 
several Commission Notices containing answers to frequently asked 
questions about taxonomy reporting issued in 2021 and 2022.
Shell has adopted a three-step process to prepare its taxonomy 
disclosure. Firstly, we begin by identifying our eligible activities 
and mapping these to our assets and projects. Secondly, we screen 
those activities for alignment with the technical criteria and the 
minimum safeguards. Finally, we calculate the metrics for eligibility 
and alignment, based on the screening results. Each step is 
discussed below.
Identification of eligible activities
Shell has assessed its business against the economic activities 
qualifying for the taxonomy’s climate mitigation and climate 
adaptation objectives. These include the activities listed in Delegated 
Regulation EU 2021/2139 (the "Climate Delegated Act") and the
gas-related activities listed in Delegated Regulation EU 2022/1214 
(the "Complementary Climate Delegated Act").
 EU taxonomy eligibility 2022
 
$ million, except where indicated
2022 2021
Turnover Capex Opex Turnover Capex Opex
Eligible  11,986  6,744  796  14,984  4,548  820 
Non-eligible  369,328  25,556  4,138  246,520  20,845  4,479 
Total  381,314  32,300  4,934  261,504  25,393  5,299 
Eligible % of total  3  %  2 1  %  1 6  %  6  %  1 8  %  1 5  %
Non-eligible % of total  9 7  %  7 9  %  8 4  %  9 4  %  8 2  %  8 5  %
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
328 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
328
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The Taxonomy Regulation does not provide criteria for determining 
when an economic activity is in scope for reporting. According to EU 
guidance, an economic activity takes place when resources such as 
capital, goods, labour, manufacturing techniques or intermediary 
products are combined to produce specific goods or services. Based on 
this definition, Shell treats economic activities as in scope for reporting 
if they correspond to final goods or services offered for sale to 
customers, or if they are intended to be offered for sale in the future 
based on current business plans. We do not report on factors of 
production or overheads, such as real estate or IT, since these do not 
represent a final good or service. We also do not report on activities 
which are immaterial to our results and are not intended to operate as 
stand-alone businesses, such as sales of waste heat or electricity from 
refineries and chemical plants. In our view, reporting on such activities 
results in a more complex disclosure and creates double-counting risks, 
reducing transparency and comparability for users.
For 2022, we identified a total of 12 economic activities as eligible 
for reporting. All of these contribute to the climate change mitigation 
objective. The only addition to our activities since last year is 4.29 
Electricity Generation from Fossil Gaseous Fuels, which became an 
eligible activity with the adoption of the Complementary Climate 
Delegated Act in 2022.
Electric vehicle charging is referenced by multiple economic activities in 
the taxonomy, each of which has a different set of technical screening 
criteria. There is a lack of consensus in the market about which one to 
apply. For 2022, Shell has elected to categorise all its electric vehicle 
charging businesses under the activity with the most stringent criteria, 
6.15 Infrastructure Enabling Low-Carbon Road Transport and 
Public Transport.
Alignment screening
The Taxonomy Regulation does not prescribe how screening for 
alignment should be carried out. Shell has developed an internal 
process to assess its eligible activities for alignment with the 
technical screening criteria and minimum safeguards, based on our 
understanding of the requirements of the Disclosures Delegated Act.
For each eligible activity, we begin by identifying the assets in scope 
for reporting. An asset is typically a discrete element of physical plant 
or equipment that contributes to an economic activity, such as a 
chemical plant or a wind farm, or a project in development that is 
intended to become an asset in the future. 
Once the assets for each activity have been defined, we review the 
Substantial Contribution and Do No Significant Harm (DNSH) criteria 
and proceed to screen the assets. Screening is carried out by subject 
matter experts and subject to cross-checking at various levels.
The technical criteria are highly detailed, with extensive references to 
European standards and regulations which are not widely used outside 
the region. Applying them poses several challenges. Examples include 
situations where it is difficult to translate EU standards or regulations 
to a non-EU context; where Shell is materially aligned with a complex 
technical standard but varies in certain details; where the criteria are 
expressed in qualitative terms that are open to interpretation; or where 
the criteria are designed for narrower range of applications than the 
one implied by the activity description. These situations require us to 
apply judgement in determining whether the criteria are met.
Sometimes it is not possible to associate eligible turnover, capex or 
opex with a specific asset. For example, this can happen when we incur 
research and development expenses for an activity but the expenditure 
cannot be tied to a specific project for screening purposes. If alignment 
cannot be reasonably established, the relevant amounts are classified 
as eligible but non-aligned.
Situations can arise where we may not be able to screen all assets in 
scope of an activity. This can occur when an activity contains a large 
number of early-stage projects and it is more efficient to focus on the 
most material projects and treat the remaining ones as eligible but
non-aligned. This situation can also arise when assets are acquired
late in the reporting cycle and there is insufficient time to conduct a 
high quality screening, or when it has not been possible to obtain 
information about a non-operated asset from joint venture partners. 
Such assets are treated as eligible but non-aligned by default. 
Assets that do not have eligible turnover, capex or opex to report 
are non-eligible and are not subject to technical screening. In practice, 
many early-stage projects are non-eligible because they have no 
turnover or capex to report, while feasibility expenditures incurred prior 
to a Final Investment Decision (FID) are non-eligible under the opex KPI. 
Technical screening outcomes described in this disclosure apply only to 
eligible assets that have been screened in 2022.
Where uncertainty exists with regard to how to interpret or apply any 
of the technical screening criteria, the relevant assets are assessed as 
non-aligned. In such cases, we intend to monitor future developments 
and update our approach as appropriate.
Substantial Contribution
The Substantial Contribution criteria are designed to ensure that an 
economic activity either has a substantial positive impact on one of the 
environmental objectives or substantially reduces negative impacts on 
the environment. The exact criteria vary from activity to activity.
In 2022, all of Shell’s eligible economic activities contribute to the 
climate change mitigation objective. For five activities, assets in scope 
for screening were assessed as aligned with the Substantial 
Contribution criteria, including solar, wind, hydrogen manufacturing, 
low-carbon road transport, and installation, maintenance and repair 
of renewable energy technology. 
Assets in scope for our remaining activities were assessed as non-
aligned. For two activities, alignment could not be established due to 
uncertainty about how to interpret and apply the technical screening 
criteria. This was the case for carbon transport and storage, where 
there are questions as to whether local standards are equivalent to 
the international and EU standards referenced by the criteria, and 
for conservation forestry, where the technical criteria differ from 
internationally recognised carbon credit standards.
Do No Significant Harm
The Do No Significant Harm criteria are designed to ensure that an 
economic activity does not impede other environmental objectives 
being reached. The combination of the Substantial Contribution 
and DNSH criteria are intended to ensure coherence between the 
taxonomy’s objectives and to avoid progress towards one objective 
being made at the expense of another.
The DNSH criteria for activities contributing to climate change 
mitigation include detailed requirements for climate change 
adaptation, water, circular economy, pollution prevention and 
biodiversity. The exact criteria vary per objective and activity.
There are four so-called "generic" DNSH criteria, addressing the 
objectives of climate adaptation, water, pollution control and 
biodiversity. These generic criteria apply to several of our eligible 
activities.
Although mitigation of physical risks, whether or not related to climate 
change, are considered and embedded in the design, construction and 
operation of assets, Shell’s current approach differs from the Generic 
Criteria for DNSH to Climate Change Adaptation (Appendix A). We 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
329 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
329
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

therefore assess ourselves as non-aligned in 2022. For more 
information, see "Climate Related Physical Risk" on page 85.
We assess our operating standards as aligned with the Generic 
Criteria for DNSH to Sustainable Use and Protection of Water and 
Marine Resources (Appendix B) and Protection and Restoration of 
Biodiversity and Ecosystems (Appendix D). We review the application 
of these standards at an asset level during the screening process.
The Generic Criteria for DNSH to Pollution Prevention and Control 
Regarding Use and Presence of Chemicals (Appendix C) specify that 
an economic activity should not lead to the manufacture, placing 
on the market or use of certain specified substances. Shell assesses 
itself as aligned with paragraphs (a) to (e), with the exception of one 
chemicals site located outside the EU containing non-aligned electrical 
equipment. Paragraphs (f) and (g) expand the scope of these 
substances "except where their use has proven to be essential for 
society". As the criteria for determining "essential use" are not yet 
defined in EU regulation, it is not possible to determine alignment 
with these paragraphs. 
Minimum safeguards
The Taxonomy Regulation defines the minimum safeguards as 
procedures implemented by a company to ensure alignment with the 
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights, including the eight 
fundamental conventions identified in the Declaration of the 
International Labour Organisation on Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work and the International Bill of Human Rights.
Respect for human rights is embedded in the Shell General 
Business Principles and our Code of Conduct. We have an integrated 
approach to human rights that is embedded into our policies and 
processes, which are applicable to all employees and contractors. 
This approach is informed by the UN Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights.
We assess our taxonomy-eligible activities as compliant with the 
minimum safeguards. For more information, see "Human Rights" 
on page 113.
Capex Plan assessment
As specified in points 1.1.2.2 and 1.1.3.2 of the Disclosures 
Delegated Act, capex and opex can be treated as aligned when 
such expenditures form part of a "Capex Plan" aimed at expanding 
an aligned activity or upgrading an eligible activity to enable it to 
become aligned. 
To qualify, a Capex Plan must be approved by management and 
disclosed at the economic activity aggregated level. The expansion 
or upgrade must take place within five years unless a longer period 
is justified by the specific features of the activity and the upgrade 
concerned, up to a maximum of ten years. The justification for a longer 
transition period must feature in the Capex Plan and be included in 
the disclosure. If the Capex Plan fails to meet the conditions within 
the specified timeframe, previously published KPIs must be restated.
Due to a lack of consensus in the market about how to interpret various 
aspects of the technical screening criteria, and uncertainty about how 
the criteria might apply to future performance conditions, Shell has 
elected not to recognise any capex or opex as aligned under the 
Capex Plan provision in 2022.
Calculating the key performance indicators
The taxonomy KPIs consist of separate measures for eligible and 
aligned turnover, capex and opex. Each measure is calculated as 
the amount associated with eligible or aligned economic activities 
(numerator) divided by the total (denominator). 
Turnover
The turnover KPI comprises the Revenue line from the Consolidated 
Statement of Income. This measure is reconciled as follows.
 EU taxonomy turnover 2022
 
$ million
2022 2021
Revenue from contracts with customers  369,606  261,378 
Revenue from other sources  11,708  126 
Total EUT Turnover  381,314  261,504 
There is uncertainty about the conditions under which hedging effects 
should be included or excluded when calculating the numerator and 
denominator for the turnover KPI. Shell’s reporting of revenue in the 
Consolidated Statement of Income follows the IFRS definition, under 
which realised and unrealised gains and losses from hedging are 
recognised in revenue. We follow the same principles when calculating 
the numerator and denominator for the turnover KPI. In 2022, 
excluding hedging effects would have an immaterial impact on the 
numerator and denominator. 
Capex
The capex KPI comprises the Additions line from Note 11 – Goodwill 
and Other Intangible Assets and the Additions line from Note 12 – 
Property, Plant and Equipment of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. As the treatment of goodwill under the taxonomy is 
uncertain, it is excluded from the measure.
When business combinations involving an eligible activity occur in a 
prior reporting period but Purchase Price Allocation takes place within 
the current period, we recognise the resulting movements to Property, 
Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets as an addition. These 
amounts are contained within Note 11 – Goodwill and Other 
Intangible Assets and Note 12 – Property, Plant and Equipment
in the Sales, Retirements and Other Movements line and are added 
to the numerator and denominator.
This measure is reconciled as follows.
 EU taxonomy capex 2022
 
$ million
2022 2021
Additions to property, plant and equipment  28,254  21,719 
Additions to goodwill and other intangible 
assets  5,555  5,220 
Less: Goodwill  1,954  1,546 
Add: Other movements  445  — 
Total EUT Capex  32,300  25,393 
The numerator for aligned capex comprises the part of eligible capex 
that is (a) associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities; (b) 
part of a Capex Plan to expand an aligned activity or to enable a non-
aligned activity to become aligned; and (c) related to the purchase of 
output from taxonomy-eligible activities. Due to limited guidance about 
how (c) should be calculated, our reporting focuses on (a) and (b) only. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
330 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
330
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The capex KPI as defined by the Taxonomy Regulation differs from 
Shell’s cash capital expenditure measure. The latter monitors investing 
activities on a cash basis, excluding items such as lease additions which 
do not necessarily result in cash outflows in the period. This measure 
comprises the following lines from the Consolidated Statement of Cash 
Flows: Capital expenditure, Investments in joint ventures and associates 
and Investments in equity securities. The cash capex measure is 
presented on page 364.
Opex
The Taxonomy Regulation defines the opex KPI as costs associated 
with maintenance and repair, research and development and short-
term leases. This is narrower than Shell’s definition of operating 
expenses and does not capture all of our expenditure on otherwise 
eligible activities. This measure is reconciled as follows.
 EU taxonomy opex 2022
 
$ million
2022 2021
Production and manufacturing expenses  25,518  23,822 
Selling, distribution and administrative 
expenses  12,883  11,328 
Research and development  1,075  815 
Total operating expenses  39,476  35,964 
Less: Non-maintenance expenses  22,211  19,981 
Less: Selling, distribution and administrative 
expenses  12,883  11,328 
Add: Expenses relating to short-term leases  552  644 
Total EUT Opex  4,934  5,299 
The numerator for aligned opex comprises the part of eligible opex that 
is (a) associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities; (b) part of 
a Capex Plan to expand an aligned activity or to enable a non-aligned 
activity to become aligned; and (c) related to the purchase of output 
from taxonomy-eligible activities. Due to limited guidance about how 
(c) should be calculated, our reporting focuses on (a) and (b) only. 
Other accounting policies
Eligibility and alignment are calculated separately for each 
economic activity. 
The reporting boundary for each activity is determined by the 
description contained in the relevant delegated act. This boundary 
frequently differs from our integrated value chains and segmental 
reporting. As a result, various adjustments are needed to calculate the 
required figures. For example, we exclude sales of third-party products 
as well as trading and retailing from the calculation of the KPIs. These 
are significant for Shell’s integrated business model but are not eligible 
for the taxonomy. Although intra-group sales are non-eligible, sales to 
our trading and marketing business are used in certain circumstances to 
calculate the turnover attributable to eligible parts of the value chain. 
When a reporting entity is engaged in multiple economic activities, 
an allocation method is applied so that only the appropriate part is 
counted. Reconciliation is made to total turnover, capex and opex 
to avoid double counting.
In some cases, a subsidiary or other related undertaking may have 
interests in more than one economic activity but there is insufficient 
data available to disaggregate turnover, capex and opex. In these 
cases, we allocate the KPIs to the activity that best describes the 
primary business of the entity. 
Shell’s eligible and aligned turnover, capex and opex are presented on 
pages 333-335 in accordance with templates specified in Annex II of 
the Disclosures Delegated Act. Disclosures concerning our gas-related 
activities are presented on pages 336-339 in accordance with the 
requirements of the Disclosures Delegated Act, Articles 8(6) and (7), 
including the templates specified in Annex XII.
Contextual information on the KPIs
This section provides additional contextual information to accompany 
the presentation of the turnover, capex and opex KPIs on pages 
333-335.
Turnover
In 2022, Shell’s taxonomy-eligible turnover was $12 billion or 3% of 
the total. The economic activities that made the biggest contribution 
to eligible turnover were chemicals and plastics, renewable power 
(including wind, solar and installation of renewable energy 
technologies), gas-fired power and low-carbon road transport. 
Eligible turnover for renewable power (including wind, solar 
and installation of renewable energy technologies) increased to 
$462 million in 2022 from $228 million in 2021. For low-carbon 
road transport, eligible turnover increased to $99 million in 2022 
from $71 million in 2021. The addition of gas-fired power as an 
economic activity in 2022 added $153 million to turnover in 2022. 
Capex
In 2022, Shell’s taxonomy-eligible capex was $6.7 billion or 21% of 
the total. The economic activities that made the biggest contribution to 
eligible capex include chemicals and plastics, wind, solar, biofuels, low-
carbon road transport and hydrogen.
Eligible capex for solar and wind was a combined $2.9 billion in 2022 
compared to $259 million in 2021, driven by business acquisitions and 
organic growth. Eligible capex for low-carbon transport, which includes 
electric vehicle charging and hydrogen mobility, was $346 million in 
2022 compared to $118 million in 2021. Eligible capex for biofuels 
increased to $580 million in 2022 from $273 million in 2021, driven 
by business acquisitions and the construction of our new biofuels 
facility in Rotterdam. Eligible capex for hydrogen was $139 million in 
2022 compared to $11 million in 2021. Eligible capex for plastics fell 
to $1.9 billion in 2022 from $3 billion in 2021, reflecting the 
completion of construction activity at our Shell Polymers Monaca 
polyethylene production facility in Pennsylvania.
Opex
In 2022, Shell’s taxonomy-eligible opex was $796 million or 16% of 
the total. The economic activities that made the biggest contribution to 
eligible opex include chemicals, biofuels and hydrogen. Our chemicals 
business is relatively mature compared to our other eligible activities 
and accounts for the largest share of opex.
Eligible opex decreased to $796 million in 2022 from $820 million 
in 2021. A decrease in opex for chemicals was partly offset by 
increased opex for hydrogen. Eligible opex as share of the total 
increased to 16% in 2022 from 15% in 2021, due in part to lower
non-eligible expenditure.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
331 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
331
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Scope of taxonomy-eligible activities
 
No Economic activity Scope Notes
1.4 Conservation forestry Nature-based solutions projects that meet the EU taxonomy activity 
description for conservation forestry and generate capital assets.
[A], [B], [C]
3.10 Manufacture of hydrogen Development and operation of hydrogen manufacturing assets. [A], [B], [C], [D], [E]
3.14 Manufacture of organic basic chemicals Manufacture of taxonomy-eligible chemical products. [A], [B], [C], [D], [F]
3.17 Manufacture of plastics in primary form Manufacture of polyethylene. [A], [B], [C], [D]
4.1 Electricity generation using solar photovoltaic 
technology
Development and operation of solar photovoltaic power assets. [A], [B], [C], [D], [G], [H]
4.3 Electricity generation from wind power Development and operation of wind power assets. [A], [B], [C], [D], [G], [H]
4.13 Manufacture of biogas and biofuels for use in 
transport and of bioliquids
Development and operation of assets for the manufacture of biogas 
and biofuels for use in transport. [A], [B], [C], [D], [I]
4.29 Electricity generation from fossil gaseous fuels Development and operation of gas-fired power assets. [A], [B], [C], [D], [J], [K]
5.11 Transport of CO
2 Development and operation of CO2 transport assets. [A], [B], [L], [M]
5.12 Underground permanent geological storage of CO 2 Development and operation of CO2 storage assets. [A], [B], [L], [M]
6.15 Infrastructure enabling low-carbon road transport and 
public transport
Development and operation of electric vehicle charging points and 
hydrogen infrastructure for road transport.
[A], [B], [G]
7.6 Installation, maintenance and repair of renewable 
energy technologies
Installation, maintenance and repair of renewable energy 
technologies, on-site.
[A], [B], [H]
[A] Excludes interests in equity-accounted joint ventures and associates.
[B] Excludes feasibility expenses incurred prior to final investment decision.
[C] Excludes trading activity.
[D] Excludes sales of third-party products.
[E] Excludes integrated hydrogen units whose outputs are primarily intended for internal consumption, such as desulphurisation in refineries.
[F] Excludes taxonomy non-eligible chemical products.
[G] Excludes B2B/B2C retail sales of electricity.
[H] Excludes expenditure on renewable power projects to reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions for taxonomy non-eligible target activities.
[I] Excludes ventures engaged in the development of feedstocks for biofuels manufacturing.
[J] Does not include integrated generation or cogeneration units whose outputs are primarily intended for internal consumption. 
[K] Does not include upstream exploration and production, midstream, LNG or GTL.
[L] Excludes carbon capture, subject to the remarks in Note [M].
[M] For integrated CCS projects where it not practically possible to distinguish carbon capture, transport and/or storage, the "Storage of CO₂" activity is used.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
332 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
332
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Turnover KPI
 Proportion of turnover from products or services associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities, 2022 [A]
 
Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria
Minimum Safeguards (17)
Taxonomy-aligned proportion of turnover 2022 (18)
Taxonomy-aligned proportion of turnover 2021 (19)
Category (enabling activity) (20)
Category (transitional activity) (21)
Economic
Activities (1)
NACE Code (2)
Absolute turnover (3)
Proportion of turnover (4)
Climate change mitigation (5)
Climate change adaptation (6)
Water and marine resources (7)
Circular economy (8)
Pollution (9)
Biodiversity and ecosystems (10)
Climate change mitigation (11)
Climate change adaptation (12)
Water and marine resources (13)
Circular economy (14)
Pollution (15)
Biodiversity and ecosystems (16)
$ million % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Turnover of A.1  0  0  %  0  % N/A
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned)
1.4 Conservation forestry A2.10  —  —  %
3.10 Manufacture of hydrogen C20.11  —  —  %
3.14 Manufacture of organic basic 
chemicals C20.14  11,187  3  %
3.17 Manufacture of plastics in 
primary form C20.16  69  0  %
4.1 Electricity generation using 
solar photovoltaic technology D35.11  38  0  %
4.3 Electricity generation from 
wind power D35.11  59  0  %
4.13 Manufacture of biogas and 
biofuels for use in transport and of 
bioliquids C35.21  —  —  %
4.29 Electricity generation from 
fossil gaseous fuels D35.11  153  0  %
5.11 Transport of CO
2 H49.50  —  —  %
5.12 Underground permanent 
geological storage of CO
2 E39.00  16  0  %
6.15 Infrastructure enabling low-
carbon road transport and public 
transport M71  99  0  %
7.6 Installation, maintenance and 
repair of renewable energy 
technologies C27  366  0  %
Turnover of A.2  11,986  3  %
Total turnover A1 + A2  11,986  3  %
Turnover of B  369,328  9 7  %
Total turnover A + B  381,314  100 %
[A] The taxonomy’s reporting basis differs from that used in Shell’s financial statements, which are based on International Financial Reporting Standards. For example, the taxonomy does not 
recognise our interests in equity accounted joint ventures and associates; goodwill; feasibility expenses; or the non-eligible parts of integrated value chains. These differences, and others, result 
in lower reported turnover, capex and opex under the taxonomy compared to our other disclosures. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
333 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Opex KPI
 Proportion of opex from products or services associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities, 2022 [A]
 
Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria
Minimum Safeguards (17)
Taxonomy-aligned proportion of opex 2022 (18)
Taxonomy-aligned proportion of opex 2021 (19)
Category (enabling activity) (20)
Category (transitional activity) (21)
Economic
Activities (1)
NACE Code (2)
Absolute opex (3)
Proportion of opex (4)
Climate change mitigation (5)
Climate change adaptation (6)
Water and marine resources (7)
Circular economy (8)
Pollution (9)
Biodiversity and ecosystems (10)
Climate change mitigation (11)
Climate change adaptation (12)
Water and marine resources (13)
Circular economy (14)
Pollution (15)
Biodiversity and ecosystems (16)
$ million % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Opex of A.1  0  0  %  0  % N/A
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned)
1.4 Conservation forestry A2.10  —  —  %
3.10 Manufacture of hydrogen C20.11 56  1  %
3.14 Manufacture of organic basic 
chemicals C20.14 658  1 3  %
3.17 Manufacture of plastics in 
primary form C20.16 4  0  %
4.1 Electricity generation using 
solar photovoltaic technology D35.11 0  0  %
4.3 Electricity generation from wind 
power D35.11 12  0  %
4.13 Manufacture of biogas and 
biofuels for use in transport and of 
bioliquids C35.21 56  1  %
4.29 Electricity generation from 
fossil gaseous fuels D35.11  —  —  %
5.11 Transport of CO
2 H49.50 0  0  %
5.12 Underground permanent 
geological storage of CO
2 E39.00 4  0  %
6.15 Infrastructure enabling low-
carbon road transport and public 
transport M71 6  0  %
7.6 Installation, maintenance and 
repair of renewable energy 
technologies C27  —  —  %
Opex of A.2 796  1 6  %
Total opex A1 + A2 796  1 6  %
B. Taxonomy non-eligible activities
Opex of B  4,138  8 4  %
Total opex A + B  4,934  100 %
[A] The taxonomy’s reporting basis differs from that used in Shell’s financial statements, which are based on International Financial Reporting Standards. For example, the taxonomy does not 
recognise our interests in equity accounted joint ventures and associates; goodwill; feasibility expenses; or the non-eligible parts of integrated value chains. These differences, and others, result 
in lower reported turnover, capex and opex under the taxonomy compared to our other disclosures. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
335 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Opex KPI
 Proportion of opex from products or services associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities, 2022 [A]
 
Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria
Minimum Safeguards (17)
Taxonomy-aligned proportion of opex 2022 (18)
Taxonomy-aligned proportion of opex 2021 (19)
Category (enabling activity) (20)
Category (transitional activity) (21)
Economic
Activities (1)
NACE Code (2)
Absolute opex (3)
Proportion of opex (4)
Climate change mitigation (5)
Climate change adaptation (6)
Water and marine resources (7)
Circular economy (8)
Pollution (9)
Biodiversity and ecosystems (10)
Climate change mitigation (11)
Climate change adaptation (12)
Water and marine resources (13)
Circular economy (14)
Pollution (15)
Biodiversity and ecosystems (16)
$ million % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Opex of A.1  0  0  %  0  % N/A
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned)
1.4 Conservation forestry A2.10  —  —  %
3.10 Manufacture of hydrogen C20.11 56  1  %
3.14 Manufacture of organic basic 
chemicals C20.14 658  1 3  %
3.17 Manufacture of plastics in 
primary form C20.16 4  0  %
4.1 Electricity generation using 
solar photovoltaic technology D35.11 0  0  %
4.3 Electricity generation from wind 
power D35.11 12  0  %
4.13 Manufacture of biogas and 
biofuels for use in transport and of 
bioliquids C35.21 56  1  %
4.29 Electricity generation from 
fossil gaseous fuels D35.11  —  —  %
5.11 Transport of CO
2 H49.50 0  0  %
5.12 Underground permanent 
geological storage of CO
2 E39.00 4  0  %
6.15 Infrastructure enabling low-
carbon road transport and public 
transport M71 6  0  %
7.6 Installation, maintenance and 
repair of renewable energy 
technologies C27  —  —  %
Opex of A.2 796  1 6  %
Total opex A1 + A2 796  1 6  %
B. Taxonomy non-eligible activities
Opex of B  4,138  8 4  %
Total opex A + B  4,934  100 %
[A] The taxonomy’s reporting basis differs from that used in Shell’s financial statements, which are based on International Financial Reporting Standards. For example, the taxonomy does not 
recognise our interests in equity accounted joint ventures and associates; goodwill; feasibility expenses; or the non-eligible parts of integrated value chains. These differences, and others, result 
in lower reported turnover, capex and opex under the taxonomy compared to our other disclosures. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
335 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
333
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Capex KPI
 Proportion of capex from products or services associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities, 2022 [A]
 
Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria
Minimum Safeguards (17)
Taxonomy-aligned proportion of capex 2022 (18)
Taxonomy-aligned proportion of capex 2021 (19)
Category (enabling activity) (20)
Category (transitional activity) (21)
Economic
Activities (1)
NACE Code (2)
Absolute capex (3)
Proportion of capex (4)
Climate change mitigation (5)
Climate change adaptation (6)
Water and marine resources (7)
Circular economy (8)
Pollution (9)
Biodiversity and ecosystems (10)
Climate change mitigation (11)
Climate change adaptation (12)
Water and marine resources (13)
Circular economy (14)
Pollution (15)
Biodiversity and ecosystems (16)
$ million % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Capex of A.1  0  0  %  0  % N/A
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned)
1.4 Conservation forestry A2.10  6  0  %
3.10 Manufacture of hydrogen C20.11  139  0  %
3.14 Manufacture of organic basic 
chemicals C20.14  800  2  %
3.17 Manufacture of plastics in 
primary form C20.16  1,914  6  %
4.1 Electricity generation using 
solar photovoltaic technology D35.11  1,753  5  %
4.3 Electricity generation from 
wind power D35.11  1,109  3  %
4.13 Manufacture of biogas and 
biofuels for use in transport and of 
bioliquids C35.21  580  2  %
4.29 Electricity generation from 
fossil gaseous fuels D35.11  45  0  %
5.11 Transport of CO
2 H49.50  —  —  %
5.12 Underground permanent 
geological storage of CO
2 E39.00  17  0  %
6.15 Infrastructure enabling low-
carbon road transport and public 
transport M71  346  1  %
7.6 Installation, maintenance and 
repair of renewable energy 
technologies C27  35  0  %
Capex of A.2  6,744  2 1  %
Total capex A1 + A2  6,744  2 1  %
B. Taxonomy non-eligible activities
Capex of B  25,556  7 9  %
Total capex A + B  32,300  100 %
[A] The taxonomy’s reporting basis differs from that used in Shell’s financial statements, which are based on International Financial Reporting Standards. For example, the taxonomy does not 
recognise our interests in equity accounted joint ventures and associates; goodwill; feasibility expenses; or the non-eligible parts of integrated value chains. These differences, and others, result 
in lower reported turnover, capex and opex under the taxonomy compared to our other disclosures. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
334 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Opex KPI
 Proportion of opex from products or services associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities, 2022 [A]
 
Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria
Minimum Safeguards (17)
Taxonomy-aligned proportion of opex 2022 (18)
Taxonomy-aligned proportion of opex 2021 (19)
Category (enabling activity) (20)
Category (transitional activity) (21)
Economic
Activities (1)
NACE Code (2)
Absolute opex (3)
Proportion of opex (4)
Climate change mitigation (5)
Climate change adaptation (6)
Water and marine resources (7)
Circular economy (8)
Pollution (9)
Biodiversity and ecosystems (10)
Climate change mitigation (11)
Climate change adaptation (12)
Water and marine resources (13)
Circular economy (14)
Pollution (15)
Biodiversity and ecosystems (16)
$ million % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Opex of A.1  0  0  %  0  % N/A
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned)
1.4 Conservation forestry A2.10  —  —  %
3.10 Manufacture of hydrogen C20.11 56  1  %
3.14 Manufacture of organic basic 
chemicals C20.14 658  1 3  %
3.17 Manufacture of plastics in 
primary form C20.16 4  0  %
4.1 Electricity generation using 
solar photovoltaic technology D35.11 0  0  %
4.3 Electricity generation from wind 
power D35.11 12  0  %
4.13 Manufacture of biogas and 
biofuels for use in transport and of 
bioliquids C35.21 56  1  %
4.29 Electricity generation from 
fossil gaseous fuels D35.11  —  —  %
5.11 Transport of CO
2 H49.50 0  0  %
5.12 Underground permanent 
geological storage of CO
2 E39.00 4  0  %
6.15 Infrastructure enabling low-
carbon road transport and public 
transport M71 6  0  %
7.6 Installation, maintenance and 
repair of renewable energy 
technologies C27  —  —  %
Opex of A.2 796  1 6  %
Total opex A1 + A2 796  1 6  %
B. Taxonomy non-eligible activities
Opex of B  4,138  8 4  %
Total opex A + B  4,934  100 %
[A] The taxonomy’s reporting basis differs from that used in Shell’s financial statements, which are based on International Financial Reporting Standards. For example, the taxonomy does not 
recognise our interests in equity accounted joint ventures and associates; goodwill; feasibility expenses; or the non-eligible parts of integrated value chains. These differences, and others, result 
in lower reported turnover, capex and opex under the taxonomy compared to our other disclosures. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
335 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
334
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Opex KPI
 Proportion of opex from products or services associated with taxonomy-aligned economic activities, 2022 [A]
 
Substantial contribution criteria DNSH criteria
Minimum Safeguards (17)
Taxonomy-aligned proportion of opex 2022 (18)
Taxonomy-aligned proportion of opex 2021 (19)
Category (enabling activity) (20)
Category (transitional activity) (21)
Economic
Activities (1)
NACE Code (2)
Absolute opex (3)
Proportion of opex (4)
Climate change mitigation (5)
Climate change adaptation (6)
Water and marine resources (7)
Circular economy (8)
Pollution (9)
Biodiversity and ecosystems (10)
Climate change mitigation (11)
Climate change adaptation (12)
Water and marine resources (13)
Circular economy (14)
Pollution (15)
Biodiversity and ecosystems (16)
$ million % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Opex of A.1  0  0  %  0  % N/A
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned)
1.4 Conservation forestry A2.10  —  —  %
3.10 Manufacture of hydrogen C20.11 56  1  %
3.14 Manufacture of organic basic 
chemicals C20.14 658  1 3  %
3.17 Manufacture of plastics in 
primary form C20.16 4  0  %
4.1 Electricity generation using 
solar photovoltaic technology D35.11 0  0  %
4.3 Electricity generation from wind 
power D35.11 12  0  %
4.13 Manufacture of biogas and 
biofuels for use in transport and of 
bioliquids C35.21 56  1  %
4.29 Electricity generation from 
fossil gaseous fuels D35.11  —  —  %
5.11 Transport of CO
2 H49.50 0  0  %
5.12 Underground permanent 
geological storage of CO
2 E39.00 4  0  %
6.15 Infrastructure enabling low-
carbon road transport and public 
transport M71 6  0  %
7.6 Installation, maintenance and 
repair of renewable energy 
technologies C27  —  —  %
Opex of A.2 796  1 6  %
Total opex A1 + A2 796  1 6  %
B. Taxonomy non-eligible activities
Opex of B  4,138  8 4  %
Total opex A + B  4,934  100 %
[A] The taxonomy’s reporting basis differs from that used in Shell’s financial statements, which are based on International Financial Reporting Standards. For example, the taxonomy does not 
recognise our interests in equity accounted joint ventures and associates; goodwill; feasibility expenses; or the non-eligible parts of integrated value chains. These differences, and others, result 
in lower reported turnover, capex and opex under the taxonomy compared to our other disclosures. 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
335 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
335
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Disclosures for nuclear and fossil gas activities
 Template 1: Nuclear and fossil gas related activities
Row 2022
Nuclear energy related activities
1 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity 
generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle.
No
2 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or 
process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety 
upgrades, using best available technologies.
No
3 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, 
including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety 
upgrades.
No
Fossil gas related activities
4 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that produce electricity 
using fossil gaseous fuels.
Yes
5 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power 
generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels.
No [A]
6 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce 
heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels.
No [A]
[A] Shell’s facilities include integrated gas-fired heating, cooling and power generation units which support one or more primary activities. Such units do not operate on a stand-alone basis and 
are not treated as a separate economic activity for reporting purposes. 
 Template 2: Taxonomy-aligned economic activities (denominator), 2022
 
$ million, except where indicated
Turnover Capex Opex
CCM + 
CCA
Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)
Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)
CCM + 
CCA
Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)
Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)
CCM + 
CCA
Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)
Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)
Row Economic activities
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
1 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but not 
taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred to in Section 
4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
2 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of 
the applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
3 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of 
the applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
4 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of 
the applicable KPI
0  0  % 0  0  % — — 0  0  % 0  0  % — — 0 0% 0 0% — —
5 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of 
the applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
6 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of 
the applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
7 Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-
aligned economic activities not referred to in 
rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI
0  0  % 0  0  % — — 0  0  % 0  0  % — — 0  0  % 0  0  % — —
8 Total applicable KPI 0  0  % 0  0  % — — 0  0  % 0  0  % — — 0  0  % 0  0  % — —
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
336 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
336
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Template 3: Taxonomy-aligned economic activities (numerator), 2022
 
$ million, except where indicated
Turnover Capex Opex
CCM + 
CCA
Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)
Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)
CCM + 
CCA
Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)
Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)
CCM + 
CCA
Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)
Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)
Row Economic activities
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
1 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator of the 
applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
2 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator of the 
applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
3 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator of the 
applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
4 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator of the 
applicable KPI
0  0  % 0  0  % — — 0  0  % 0  0  % — — 0 0% 0 0% — —
5 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator of the 
applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
6 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic 
activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator of the 
applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
7 Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-aligned 
economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 
above in the numerator of the applicable KPI
0  0  % 0  0  % — — 0  0  % 0  0  % — — 0  0  % 0  0  % — —
8 Total amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned 
economic activities in the numerator of the 
applicable KPI
0  0  % 0  0  % — — 0  0  % 0  0  % — — 0  0  % 0  0  % — —
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
337 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
337
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Template 4: Taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities, 2022
$ million, except where indicated
Turnover Capex Opex
CCM + CCA
Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)
Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)
CCM + 
CCA
Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)
Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)
CCM + 
CCA
Climate 
change 
mitigation 
(CCM)
Climate 
change 
adaptation 
(CCA)
Row Economic activities
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
Amount
%
1 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but 
not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred
to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated 
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
2 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but 
not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred
to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated 
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
3 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but 
not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred
to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated 
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
4 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but 
not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred
to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated 
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI
153  1.3 % 153  1.3 % — — 45  0.7 % 45  0.7 % — —  —  —  % —  —  % — —
5 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but 
not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred
to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated 
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
6 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but 
not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred
to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated 
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
7 Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-
eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic 
activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above 
in the denominator of the applicable KPI
 11,833  9 8 . 7  % 11,833  9 8 . 7  % — —  6,699  99.3 %  6,699  99.3 % — —  796  100 %  796  100 % — —
8 Total amount and proportion of taxonomy-
eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic 
activities in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI
 11,986  100 %  11,986  100 % — —  6,744  100 %  6,744  100 % — —  796  100 %  796  100 % — —
 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
338 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
338
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Template 5: Taxonomy non-eligible economic activities, 2022
 
$ million, except where indicated
Turnover Capex Opex
Row Economic activities Amount % Amount % Amount %
1 Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 
of Template 1 that is taxonomy non-eligible in accordance with 
Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI
 —  —  —  —  —  — 
2 Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 2 
of Template 1 that is taxonomy non-eligible in accordance with 
Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI
 —  —  —  —  —  — 
3 Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 3 
of Template 1 that is taxonomy non-eligible in accordance with 
Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI
 —  —  —  —  —  — 
4 Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 4 
of Template 1 that is taxonomy non-eligible in accordance with 
Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI [A]
0  0  % 0  0  % 0 0%
5 Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 5 
of Template 1 that is taxonomy non-eligible in accordance with 
Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI
 —  — 
 —   —  —  —  — 
6 Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 6 
of Template 1 that is taxonomy non-eligible in accordance with 
Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI
 —  — 
  —  —  —  — 
7 Amount and proportion of other taxonomy non-eligible 
economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in 
the denominator of the applicable KPI
 369,328  100 %  25,556  100 %  4,138  100 %
8 Total amount and proportion of taxonomy non-eligible 
economic activities in the denominator of the applicable 
KPI
 369,328  100 %  25,556  100 %  4,138  100 %
[A] The scope of this requirement is not possible to determine based on current EU guidance. Shell intends to monitor future developments and update our approach as appropriate
Financial Statements and Supplements
Supplementary information – EU taxonomy disclosure continued
339 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
339
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Parent Company
Financial Statements
The Parent Company Financial Statements have not been audited in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). 
341 Statement of Income
341 Statement of Comprehensive Income
341 Balance Sheet
342 Statement of Changes in Equity
342 Statement of Cash Flows
343 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
343 Note 1 Basis of preparation
343 Note 2 Significant accounting policies
344 Note 3 Interest and other income/expense
344 Note 4 Investments in subsidiaries
345 Note 5 Accounts receivable
345 Note 6 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
345 Note 7 Taxation
346 Note 8 Financial instruments
346 Note 9 Share capital
348 Note 10 Other reserves
348 Note 11 Dividends
348 Note 12 Legal proceedings and other contingencies
348 Note 13 Directors and Senior Management
348 Note 14 Related parties
349 Note 15 Auditor’s remuneration
349 Note 16 Post-balance sheet events
Financial Statements and Supplements
340
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Statement of Income
 
$ million
Notes 2022 2021
Dividend income  20,200  19,098 
Interest and other income 3  117  3 
Administrative expenses  (326)  (70) 
Interest and other expense 3  (2)  (1) 
Income before taxation  19,989  19,030 
Taxation credit 7  22  8 
Income for the period  20,011  19,038 
Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
$ million
2022 2021
Income for the period  20,011  19,038 
Comprehensive income for the period  20,011  19,038 
Balance Sheet
 
$ million
Notes Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 4  257,455  256,953 
Deferred tax asset 7 1  — 
 257,456  256,953 
Current assets
Accounts receivable 5  6,111  11,522 
Cash and cash equivalents  —  — 
 6,111  11,522 
Total assets  263,567  268,475 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 6  2,087  1,868 
Total liabilities  2,087  1,868 
Equity
Share capital 9  584  641 
Other reserves 10  235,721  235,488 
Retained earnings  25,175  30,478 
Total equity  261,480  266,607 
Total liabilities and equity  263,567  268,475 
Signed on behalf of the Board
 /s/ Sinead Gorman
Sinead Gorman
Chief Financial Officer
March 8, 2023
Financial Statements and Supplements
Parent Company Financial Statements continued
341 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
341
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Statement of Changes in Equity
 
$ million
Notes
Share 
capital
Other
reserves
Retained
earnings
Total
equity
At January 1, 2022  641  235,488  30,478  266,607 
Comprehensive income for the period  —  —  20,011  20,011 
Dividends 11  —  —  (7,283)  (7,283) 
Repurchases of shares [A] 9  (57)  57  (18,547)  (18,547) 
Share-based compensation 10  —  176  516  692 
At December 31, 2022  584  235,721  25,175  261,480 
At January 1, 2021  651  235,419  20,832  256,902 
Comprehensive income for the period  —  —  19,038  19,038 
Dividends 11  —  —  (6,321)  (6,321) 
Repurchases of shares 9  (10)  10  (3,509)  (3,509) 
Share-based compensation 10  —  59  438  497 
At December 31, 2021  641  235,488  30,478  266,607 
[A] Includes shares committed to repurchase under an irrevocable contract and repurchases subject to settlement at the end of the year (see Note 9).
Statement of Cash Flows
 
$ million
Notes 2022 2021
Income before taxation for the period  19,989  19,030 
Adjustment for:
Dividend income  (20,200)  (19,098) 
Interest income  (114)  — 
Interest expense  2  1 
Share-based compensation  7  22 
(Increase)/decrease in net working capital [B]  219  (53) 
Cash flow from operating activities  (97)  (98) 
Dividends received  20,200  19,098 
(Increase)/decrease in deposits with subsidiary undertakings [B] 14  5,445  (10,041) 
Interest received  114  — 
Share-based compensation  182  184 
Cash flow from investing activities  25,941  9,241 
Cash dividends paid [A] 11  (7,405)  (6,253) 
Shares repurchased 9  (18,437)  (2,890) 
Interest and other expenses paid  (2)  (1) 
Cash flow from financing activities  (25,844)  (9,144) 
Change in cash and cash equivalents  —  (1) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year  —  1 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  —  — 
[A] Cash dividends paid represents the payment of net dividends (after deduction of withholding taxes where applicable) and payment of withholding taxes on dividends paid in the previous 
quarter.
[B] The movement in deposits held with subsidiary undertakings has been reclassified from cash flow from operating activities to cash flow from investing activities. This is following a reassessment 
during the year. Prior year amounts have been restated for comparability.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Parent Company Financial Statements continued
342 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
342
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

1. Basis of preparation
The Financial Statements of Shell plc (the "Company") have been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards 
and with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under those standards. As applied to Shell, there 
are no material differences from International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB); therefore, the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
As described in the accounting policies in Note 2, the Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for 
certain items measured at fair value. Those accounting policies have been applied consistently in all periods.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis of accounting, as set out in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements (see page 242).
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates. It also requires management to 
exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies. Actual results may differ from those estimates. 
The financial results of the Company are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 237-307. The financial results of the 
Company incorporate the results of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust (the "Trust"), the financial statements of which are presented on 
pages 352-356.
The Company’s principal activity is being the parent company for Shell, as described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see 
page 242).
2. Significant accounting policies 
The Company’s accounting policies follow those of Shell as set out in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 242-252. 
The following are Company-specific policies. 
Presentation and functional currency 
The Company’s presentation and functional currency is US dollars (dollars). 
Investments 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, net of any impairment. Investments are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts for those investments may not be recoverable. For the purposes of determining whether 
impairment of investments in subsidiaries has occurred, and the extent of any impairment loss or its reversal, management performs an assessment 
of value in use or fair value less costs of disposal. Management's conclusion may be determined by using one or both of these methodologies as 
appropriate. For key judgements applied in reaching management’s conclusion, please see Note 4.
The original cost of the Company’s investment in Royal Dutch Petroleum Company (Royal Dutch) was based on the fair value of the shares 
transferred to the Company by the former shareholders of Royal Dutch in exchange for A shares in the Company during the public exchange offer 
in 2005. The original cost of the Company’s investment in The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company p.l.c., now The Shell Transport and Trading 
Company Limited (Shell Transport), was the fair value of the shares held by the former shareholders of The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company 
p.l.c., transferred in consideration for the issuance of B shares as part of the Scheme of Arrangement in 2005. The Company’s investments in Royal 
Dutch and Shell Transport subsequently became an investment in Shell Petroleum N.V. (Shell Petroleum); this change had no impact on the cost of 
investments in subsidiaries. On February 15, 2016, the Company acquired all the voting rights in BG Group plc via the issuance of shares and cash 
payments of a total fair value of $53,086 million. In September 2016, the Company’s shares in BG Group Limited (BG), formerly BG Group plc, 
were exchanged for an increased investment in Shell Petroleum. This change had no impact on the cost of investment in subsidiaries. 
Dividend income 
Dividends are recognised on a paid basis unless the dividend has been confirmed by a general meeting of Shell Petroleum, in which case income is 
recognised on the date at which receipt is deemed virtually certain. 
Share-based compensation plans 
The fair value of share-based compensation for equity-settled plans granted to employees of subsidiaries under the Company’s plans is recognised 
as an investment in subsidiaries from the date of grant over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity. 
In the year of vesting of a plan, the costs for the actual deliveries are charged to the relevant employing subsidiaries. This is recognised as a 
realisation of the investment originally booked. If the actual vesting costs are higher than the cumulatively recognised share-based compensation 
charge, the difference is recognised in income. 
See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 300) for information on the Company’s principal plan. 
Taxation 
The Company is tax-resident in the United Kingdom with effect from December 31, 2021 (see Note 9).
Tax is recognised in profit or loss, except that tax attributable to an item of income or expense recognised as other comprehensive income is also 
recognised directly in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
343 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
343
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

2. Significant accounting policies continued
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance 
sheet date for tax payable to HM Revenue and Customs, or for tax loss Group relief to be surrendered to or to be received from other Group 
undertakings, and for which payment may be requested. 
Provisions for uncertain income tax positions/treatments are measured at the most likely amount or the expected value, whichever method is more 
appropriate. Generally, uncertain tax treatments are assessed on an individual basis, except where they are expected to be settled collectively. It 
is assumed that taxing authorities will examine positions taken if they have the right to do so and that they have full knowledge of the relevant 
information.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities, and their carrying amounts in the 
financial statements at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will 
be available against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and credits carried forward can be utilised. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are measured using corporation tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are expected 
to reverse and are based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are presented separately except where there is a legally enforceable right and an intention to settle such 
balances on a net basis.
Amounts relating to deferred tax are undiscounted.
3. Interest and other income/expense
 
$ million
2022 2021
Interest and other income:
Interest income  114  — 
Foreign exchange gains  3  3 
Total  117  3 
Interest and other expenses:
Interest expense  (2)  (1) 
Foreign exchange losses  —  — 
Total  (2)  (1) 
4. Investments in subsidiaries
 
$ million
2022 2021
At January 1  256,953  256,663 
Share-based compensation  805  517 
Recovery of vested share-based compensation  (303)  (227) 
At December 31  257,455  256,953 
As at December 31, 2022, the market capitalisation of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the "Group") was less than
the Company's carrying value of its investment in the Group. Management has therefore performed an impairment test to determine whether 
recoverable amount exceeded the cost of investment recognised. 
Recoverable amount was assessed by reference to fair value less costs of disposal. This was calculated by comparing the cost of investment with 
the Group’s market capitalisation, adjusted to reflect a control premium. In determining the premium and costs of disposal, available data from 
recent market transactions in comparable industries, conducted at arm's length for similar assets, have been taken into account.
This resulted in a recoverable amount exceeding the cost of investment recognised and is consistent with management’s expectation of the future 
recoverability of the Company’s investment in the Group. As fair value less costs of disposal exceeded cost, no separate value in use calculation 
was undertaken.
The recoverability of the Company’s investment in the Group may be influenced by the risk factors of the Group, including commodity prices, 
market supply and demand, expected production volumes and developments related to climate change and the energy transition (see Note 4
to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 252-260).
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
344 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
344
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

5. Accounts receivable
 
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Amounts due from subsidiaries (see Note 14)  6,074  11,522 
Tax assets  34  — 
Other receivables  3  — 
Total  6,111  11,522 
6. Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Amounts due to subsidiaries (see Note 14)  1,088  836 
Accruals and other liabilities  989  901 
Withholding tax payable  —  121 
Unclaimed dividends  10  10 
Total  2,087  1,868 
Accruals and other liabilities at December 31, 2022, principally comprise commitments for share repurchases undertaken on the Company’s behalf 
under irrevocable, non-discretionary arrangements of $947 million (2021: $838 million).
7. Taxation
$ million
2022 2021
Current tax:
Charge/(credit) in respect of current period  (21)  (10) 
Charge/(credit) in respect of prior period  —  — 
Total  (21)  (10) 
Deferred tax:
Relating to the origination and reversal of tax losses and credits  (1)  2 
Relating to changes in tax rates and legislation  —  — 
Total  (1)  2 
Taxation charge/(credit)  (22)  (8) 
In 2022, a current tax credit of $22 million has been recognised in the Company’s accounts. It primarily comprises $37 million receipt from other 
UK Group companies for tax losses surrendered and $15 million payment to the tax authorities in respect of profits which may not be offset by 
losses.
 Reconciliation of applicable tax charge at statutory tax rate to taxation charge
$ million
2022 2021
Income before taxation  19,989  19,030 
Applicable tax charge at the statutory tax rate of 19% (2021: NL tax rate 25.0%)  3,798  4,758 
Derecognition of deferred tax assets  —  — 
Tax effects of:
Income not subject to tax at statutory rates  (3,837)  (4,774) 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes  2  20 
Controlled Foreign Companies charge  15  — 
Adjustments in respect of prior periods  —  — 
Other  —  (12) 
Taxation credit  (22)  (8) 
In line with the tax residency change from the Netherlands to the UK, the applicable taxes and the tax reconciliation for 2022 are based on the 
UK tax rates and laws and those for 2021 are based on tax rates and laws applicable in the Netherlands.
Taxes receivable are reported within accounts receivable (see Note 5).
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
345 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
345
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

7. Taxation continued
 Deferred tax assets
$ million
2022 2021
At January 1  —  — 
Recognised in income statement  1  (2) 
Other movements  —  2 
At December 31  1  — 
The UK corporate income tax rate applicable for the year ended December 31, 2022, is 19%. Deferred taxes on the Balance Sheet have been 
measured at 25%, which represents the future corporate income tax rate that was enacted at the balance sheet date. The Finance Act 2021 
(enacted on May 24, 2021) increased the main rate of UK corporate income tax to 25% with effect from April 1, 2023.
8. Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost in the Company’s Balance Sheet comprise amounts due from subsidiaries (see Note 14) 
and certain amounts reported within accounts payable and accrued liabilities (see Note 6). The fair value of financial assets and liabilities at 
December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021, approximates their carrying amount.
Information on financial risk management is presented in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see pages 293-296). Foreign 
currency derivatives are used by the Company to manage foreign exchange risk, which arises when certain transactions are denominated in a 
currency that is not the Company’s functional currency. No derivative financial instruments were held at December 31, 2022, or December 31, 
2021.
9. Share capital
 Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of €0.07 each [A]
 
Number of shares Nominal value ($ million)
A B
Ordinary
shares A B
Ordinary 
shares Total
At January 1, 2022  4,101,239,499  3,582,892,954  345  296  641 
Repurchases of shares before assimilation  —  (34,106,548)  —  (3)  (3) 
Assimilation of ordinary A and B shares into 
ordinary shares on January 29, 2022  (4,101,239,499)  (3,548,786,406)  7,650,025,905  (345)  (293)  638 
Repurchases of B shares on January 27 and 
28, 2022, cancelled as ordinary shares on 
February 2 and 3, 2022  (507,742)  —  — 
Repurchases of shares after assimilation  (646,014,770)  (54)  (54) 
At December 31, 2022  7,003,503,393  584  584 
At January 1, 2021  4,101,239,499  3,706,183,836  345  306  651 
Repurchases of shares  —  (123,290,882)  —  (10)  (10) 
At December 31, 2021  4,101,239,499  3,582,892,954  345  296  641 
[A] Share capital at December 31, 2022, and 2021, also included 50,000 issued and fully paid sterling deferred shares of £1 each (see Note 16).
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) on May 24, 2022, the Board was authorised to allot ordinary shares in the Company, and to 
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into ordinary shares in the Company, up to an aggregate nominal amount of €177.0 million 
(representing 2,530 million ordinary shares of €0.07 each) and to list such shares or rights on any stock exchange. This authority expires at the 
earlier of the close of business on August 24, 2023, and the end of the AGM to be held in 2023, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by 
the Company in a general meeting. 
At the May 24, 2022, AGM, shareholders granted the Company the authority to repurchase (i) up to 758 million ordinary shares "on-
market" (excluding any treasury shares), less any "off-market" purchases made under the authority in (ii); and (ii) up to 758 million ordinary shares 
off-market (excluding any treasury shares), less any on-market purchases made under the authority in (i).
In the case of both on-market and off-market purchases of ordinary shares, the minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an 
ordinary share is €0.07 and the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary share is the higher of: (i) an amount 
equal to 5% above the average market value for an ordinary share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase; 
and (ii) the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid in relation to ordinary shares on the trading 
venues where the purchase is carried out. The authorities for both on-market and off-market purchases will expire at the earlier of the close of 
business on August 24, 2023, and the end of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2023. Ordinary shares purchased by the Company 
pursuant to these authorities will either be cancelled or held in treasury. Treasury shares are shares in the Company which are owned by 
the Company.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
346 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
346
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

9. Share capital continued
All shares repurchased in 2022 under the Company’s share buyback programme were cancelled except for repurchases on December 29 and 
December 30 which were cancelled in January 2023. 
The sterling deferred shares (see Note 16) are redeemable only at the discretion of the Company for £1 each and carry no voting rights. There are 
no further rights to participate in profits or assets, including the right to receive dividends. Upon winding-up or liquidation, the shares carry a right 
to repayment of paid-up nominal value, ranking ahead of ordinary shares. 
For information on the number of shares in the Company held by Shell employee share ownership trusts and trust-like entities to meet delivery 
commitments under employee share plans, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 300). 
Assimilation of A and B shares
On January 29, 2022, the Company completed the assimilation of A and B shares into a single class of share, following a change in tax residence 
to the UK with effect from December 31, 2021. As a result, dividend payments during the period were made by the Company, with the use of the 
dividend access mechanism restricted to the settlement of amounts unclaimed in respect of dividends declared on Class B shares prior to 
assimilation.
Dividends paid on ordinary shares during the period were not subject to Dutch withholding tax. In prior periods, A shares had a Dutch source for 
tax purposes and were subject to Dutch withholding tax. Dividends paid on B shares were settled through the dividend access mechanism, with 
a UK source for UK and Dutch tax purposes. There was no Dutch withholding tax on such dividends.
Description of dividend access mechanism prior to the assimilation of A and B shares
Shell Transport and BG have each issued a dividend access share to Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited as Trustee. The Company, Shell 
Transport and BG can procure the termination of the dividend access mechanism at any time. Pursuant to a declaration of trust, the Trustee 
arranges for disbursement of dividends to holders of B shares when claimed. Interest and other income earned on unclaimed dividends will be for 
the account of Shell Transport and BG and any dividends which are unclaimed after 12 years will revert to Shell Transport and BG once forfeited. 
Holders of B shares did not have any interest in either dividend access share and did not have any rights against Shell Transport and BG as issuers 
of the dividend access shares. The only assets held on trust for the benefit of the holders of B shares were dividends paid to the Trustee in respect 
of the dividend access shares. 
The declaration and payment of dividends on the dividend access shares required board action by Shell Transport and BG (as applicable) and 
was subject to any applicable limitations in law or in the Shell Transport or BG (as appropriate) articles of association in effect. In no event was 
the aggregate amount of the dividend paid by Shell Transport and BG under the dividend access mechanism for a particular period to exceed the 
aggregate of the dividend announced by the Board of the Company on B shares in respect of the same period (after giving effect to currency 
conversions).
In particular, under their respective articles of association, Shell Transport and BG were each only able to pay a dividend on their respective 
dividend access shares which represented a proportional amount of the aggregate of any dividend announced by the Company on the B shares in 
respect of the relevant period, where such proportions were calculated by reference to, in the case of Shell Transport, the number of B shares in 
existence prior to completion of the Company’s acquisition of BG and, in the case of BG, the number of B shares issued as part of the acquisition, 
in each case as against the total number of B shares in issue immediately following completion of the acquisition of BG. No further dividends are 
expected to be declared in respect of the dividend access shares.
Operation of the dividend access mechanism prior to the assimilation of A and B shares
If, in connection with the announcement of a dividend by the Company on B shares, the Board of Shell Transport and/or the Board of BG elected 
to declare and pay a dividend on their respective dividend access shares to the Trustee, the holders of B shares were beneficially entitled to 
receive their share of those dividends pursuant to the declaration of trust (and arrangements were made to ensure that the dividend was paid in 
the same currency in which they would have received a dividend from the Company). 
If any amount was paid by Shell Transport or BG by way of a dividend on the dividend access shares and paid by the Trustee to any holder of B 
shares, the dividend which the Company would otherwise have paid on B shares was reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to such 
holders of B shares by the Trustee.
The Company would have had a full and unconditional obligation, in the event that the Trustee did not pay an amount to holders of B shares on 
a cash dividend payment date (even if that amount had been paid to the Trustee), to pay immediately the dividend announced on B shares. 
The right of holders of B shares to receive distributions from the Trustee would have been reduced by an amount equal to the amount of any 
payment actually made by the Company on account of any dividend on B shares.
If for any reason no dividend was paid on the dividend access shares, holders of B shares would only have received dividends from the 
Company directly. 
Operation of the dividend access mechanism subsequent to the assimilation of A and B shares
As a result of the assimilation of each A share and each B share into one ordinary share of the Company the dividend access mechanism no longer 
operates to pay dividends to the holders of B shares and amounts paid through the dividend access mechanism will be limited to the settlement 
of amounts unclaimed in respect of dividends declared prior to assimilation of B shares.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
347 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
347
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

10. Other reserves
 
$ million
Merger
reserve
Share
premium
reserve
Capital
redemption
reserve
Share
plan
reserve Total
At January 1, 2022  234,231  154  139  964  235,488 
Repurchases of shares  —  —  57  —  57 
Share-based compensation  —  —  —  176  176 
At December 31, 2022  234,231  154  196  1,140  235,721 
At January 1, 2021  234,231  154  129  905  235,419 
Repurchases of shares  —  —  10  —  10 
Share-based compensation  —  —  —  59  59 
At December 31, 2021  234,231  154  139  964  235,488 
The merger reserve was established as a consequence of the Company becoming the single parent company of Royal Dutch and Shell Transport 
and represented the difference between the cost of the investment in those companies and the nominal value of shares issued in exchange for 
those investments as required by the prevailing legislation at that time, section 131 of the Companies Act 1985. On February 15, 2016, the 
Company acquired all shares in BG Group plc by means of a Scheme of Arrangement under Part 26 of the Act, via the issuance of 218.7 million
A shares and 1,305.1 million B shares and cash payments. This resulted in an increase in the merger reserve, representing the difference between 
the fair value and the nominal value of the shares issued by the Company. 
On January 6, 2006, loan notes were converted into 4,827,974 A shares. The difference between the carrying value of the loan notes and the 
nominal value of the new shares issued was credited to the share premium reserve. The capital redemption reserve was established in connection 
with repurchases of shares of the Company. The share plan reserve is in respect of equity-settled share-based compensation plans (see Note 27 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements) and movement in share-based compensation for the year is the net of the charge to equity and the release 
as a result of vested awards.
11. Dividends
See Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 303).
12. Legal proceedings and other contingencies
See Note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see pages 303-305).
13. Directors and Senior Management
See Note 33 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 306) for the remuneration of Directors of the Company. In 2022, the Company 
recognised $14 million (2021: $23 million) in administrative expenses for the compensation of Directors and Senior Management.
14. Related parties
Information about the Company’s subsidiaries, and whether these are held directly or indirectly, and other related undertakings (all of which are 
held indirectly), at December 31, 2022, is set out in 'Appendix 1: Significant Subsidiaries and Other Related Undertakings'. 
 
$ million
Amounts due from subsidiaries 
(see Note 5)
Amounts due to subsidiaries
(see Note 6)
2022 2021 2022 2021
Shell Petroleum  —  —  797  836 
Shell Treasury Centre Limited  6,066  11,511  —  — 
The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited  —  5  291  — 
Other  8  6  —  — 
Total  6,074  11,522  1,088  836 
The amount due from Shell Treasury Centre Limited (STCL) comprises call deposits and overdrafts in dollars, sterling and euros. Interest is 
calculated using arm's-length benchmark 3-day median quotes on dollar, sterling and euro balances. Net interest income in 2022 from STCL
was $114 million (2021: $0 million). 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
348 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
348
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

14. Related parties continued
Other transactions and balances 
The Company periodically enters into forward and spot foreign currency contracts with Treasury companies, which are subsidiaries. There were 
no open foreign currency contracts at December 31, 2022, or December 31, 2021. 
The Company settles general and administrative expenses of the Trust, including the auditor’s remuneration. 
The Company has guaranteed contractual payments totalling $50,981 million at December 31, 2022 (December 31, 2021: $54,653 million), and 
related interest, in respect of listed debt issued by Shell International Finance B.V. The fair value of this guarantee was considered to be immaterial 
at initial recognition and since the likelihood of default is considered remote no subsequent expected credit losses have been recognised.
15. Auditor’s remuneration
See Note 34 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 307).
16. Post-balance sheet events
On January 11, 2023, the Company became the guarantor of contractual payments totalling $1,500 million and €900 million, plus related 
interest, in respect of debt issued by BG Energy Capital plc, in place of the previous guarantor, BG Energy Holdings Limited. Both entities are 
subsidiaries of the Company. The fair value of this guarantee is considered to be immaterial since the likelihood of default is considered remote.
On February 2, 2023, Shell announced the commencement of a $4 billion share buyback programme covering an aggregate contract term of 
approximately three months (the "programme"). The purpose of the programme is to reduce the issued share capital of the company. All shares 
repurchased as part of the programme will be cancelled. It is intended that, subject to market conditions, the programme will be completed prior 
to the Company’s first quarter 2023 results announcement, scheduled for May 4, 2023. The Company has entered into an arrangement with a 
single broker consisting of three irrevocable, non-discretionary contracts, to enable the purchase of ordinary shares.
The Board has approved the redemption and cancellation of the Company’s sterling deferred shares which will be effected in due course, in 
accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. Upon redemption, the sterling deferred shares will be treated as cancelled and the 
Company’s issued share capital will be reduced by the nominal value of the shares redeemed, in accordance with section 688 of the UK 
Companies Act 2006.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
349 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
349
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

To computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited as trustee
of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust and the 
Board of Directors and shareholders of Shell plc
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the non-statutory financial statements of the Royal 
Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust (the Financial Statements) for the 
year ended December 31, 2022 which comprise the Statement of 
Income, the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Balance Sheet, 
the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statement of Cash Flows and 
the related notes 1 to 9, including a summary of significant accounting 
policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 
In our opinion the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of
the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust’s (the Trust) affairs as at 
December 31, 2022 and of its income for the year then ended; and 
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by
the IASB.
Basis for opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the "Auditor's 
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements" section of our 
report. We are independent of the Trust in accordance with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements 
in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC) Ethical 
Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a suitable basis for our opinion. 
Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Trustee 
of Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust’s (the Trustee) use of the 
going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial 
statements is appropriate.
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any 
material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually 
or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Trust’s ability to 
continue as a going concern for a period until 31 March 2024
(the going concern period).
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Trustee with respect 
to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this report. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the Trust’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
Other information 
The other information comprises the information included in the
annual report other than the Financial Statements and our auditor’s 
report thereon. The Board of Directors of Shell plc (the Directors)
are responsible for the other information contained within the
annual report. 
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other 
information and, except to the extent otherwise stated explicitly
within this report, we do not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, 
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with 
the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit
or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such 
material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are 
required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in
the Financial Statements themselves. If, based on the work we have 
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the 
other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard. 
Responsibilities of the Trustee and the Board of Directors 
of Shell plc
The Trustee and the Board of Directors of Shell plc are responsible
for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the 
Trustee and the Board of Directors of Shell plc determine is necessary 
to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Trustee and the Board of 
Directors of Shell plc are responsible for assessing the Trust’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related 
to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting 
unless the Board of Directors of Shell plc either intends to liquidate
the Trust or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but
to do so. 
Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial 
statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of 
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of
users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to Computershare Trustees (Jersey) limited as 
trustee of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust and the Board of 
Directors and shareholders of Shell plc
350 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
350
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered 
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud 
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with 
laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our 
responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities, including fraud. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher 
than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may 
involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional 
misrepresentations, or through collusion. The extent to which our 
procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is 
detailed below. However, the primary responsibility for the prevention 
and detection of fraud rests with both the Trustee and those charged 
with governance of Shell plc and its management.
▪ We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory 
frameworks that are applicable to the Trust and determined that the 
most significant are those that relate to the reporting framework 
(IFRS and the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
▪ We understood how the Trust is complying with those frameworks
by making enquiries of the Trustee, Shell plc management and those 
responsible for legal and compliance procedures over the Trust. We 
corroborated our enquiries through our review of Resolutions of the 
Trust Committee of the Trustee, papers provided to the Shell plc 
Audit Committee and correspondence received from regulatory 
bodies and noted that there was no contradictory evidence.
▪ We assessed the susceptibility of the Trust’s financial statements to 
material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by regular 
meetings with the Trustee, Shell plc management and those 
responsible for legal and compliance procedures over the Trust to 
understand where it was considered there was susceptibility to fraud. 
We considered the programmes and design, implementation and 
maintenance of internal controls that the Trustee and Shell plc have 
established to prevent and detect fraud over the Trust and how the 
Trustee, Shell plc management and those responsible for legal and 
compliance procedures over the Trust monitor those programmes 
and controls.
▪ Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures
to identify noncompliance with such laws and regulations. Our 
procedures involved review of Resolutions of the Trust Committee
of the Trustee and Shell plc Audit Committee minutes to identify 
noncompliance with laws and regulations, journal entry testing with 
a focus on journals meeting our defined risk criteria based on our 
understanding of the Trust and enquiries of the Trustee, Shell plc 
management and those responsible for legal and compliance 
procedures over the Trust.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial 
Statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
https://www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms 
part of our auditor’s report. 
Use of our report
This report is made solely to the Trustee and the Board of Directors
and Shareholders of Shell plc as a body, in accordance with our 
engagement letter. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the Trustee and the Board of Directors and Shareholders 
of Shell plc those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Trustee and the Board of Directors and Shareholders
of Shell plc as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the 
opinions we have formed.
 
/s/ Mark Woodward 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor
London 
March 8, 2023
Financial Statements and Supplements
Independent Auditor's Report to Computershare Trustees (Jersey) limited as 
trustee of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust and the Board of 
Directors and shareholders of Shell plc continued
351 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
351
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Royal Dutch Shell
Dividend Access Trust
Financial Statements
353 Statement of Income
353 Statement of Comprehensive Income
353 Balance Sheet
354 Statement of Changes in Equity
354 Statement of Cash Flows
355 Notes to the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust 
Financial Statements
355 Note 1 The Trust
355 Note 2 Basis of preparation
355 Note 3 Significant accounting policies
355 Note 4 Unclaimed dividends 
356 Note 5 Capital account
356 Note 6 Distributions made
356 Note 7 Related parties
356 Note 8 Auditor’s remuneration
Financial Statements and Supplements
352
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Statement of Income
 
£ million
2022 2021 2020
Dividend income  —  2,201  2,777 
Income for the period  —  2,201  2,777 
Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
£ million
2022 2021 2020
Income for the period  —  2,201  2,777 
Comprehensive income for the period  —  2,201  2,777 
Balance Sheet
 
£ million
Notes Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021
Assets
Other current assets  6  7 
Cash and cash equivalents  —  — 
Total assets  6  7 
Liabilities
Unclaimed dividends 4  6  7 
Total liabilities  6  7 
Equity
Capital account 5  —  — 
Revenue account  —  — 
Total equity  —  — 
Total liabilities and equity  6  7 
Signed on behalf of Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited as Trustee of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust.
 /s/ John Le Marquand
John Le Marquand
March 8, 2023
 /s/ Martin Fish
Martin Fish
Financial Statements and Supplements
Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements continued
353 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
353
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Statement of Changes in Equity
 
£ million
Notes Capital
account
Revenue
account
Total
equity
At January 1, 2022  —  —  — 
Comprehensive income for the period  —  —  — 
Distributions made 6  —  —  — 
At December 31, 2022  —  —  — 
At January 1, 2021  —  —  — 
Comprehensive income for the period  —  2,201  2,201 
Distributions made 6  —  (2,201)  (2,201) 
At December 31, 2021  —  —  — 
At January 1, 2020  —  —  — 
Comprehensive income for the period  —  2,777  2,777 
Distributions made 6  —  (2,777)  (2,777) 
At December 31, 2020  —  —  — 
Statement of Cash Flows
 
£ million
2022 2021 2020
Income for the period  —  2,201  2,777 
Adjustment for:
Dividends received  —  (2,201)  (2,777) 
Cash flow from operating activities  —  —  — 
Dividends received  —  2,200  2,772 
Cash flow from investing activities  —  2,200  2,772 
Cash distributions made  —  (2,200)  (2,775) 
Cash flow from financing activities  —  (2,200)  (2,775) 
Change in cash and cash equivalents  —  —  (3) 
Cash and cash equivalents at January 1  —  —  3 
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31  —  —  — 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust Financial Statements continued
354 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
354
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

1. The Trust
The Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust (the "Trust") was established on May 19, 2005, by The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company, p.l.c., 
now The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited (Shell Transport), and Royal Dutch Shell plc, now Shell plc (the "Company"). The Trust is 
governed by the applicable laws of England and Wales and is resident and domiciled in Jersey. The Trust is not subject to taxation. The Trustee 
of the Trust is Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited, registration number 92182 (the "Trustee"), 13 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 1ES. 
The Trust was established as part of a dividend access mechanism. 
Shell Transport and BG Group Limited (BG) have each issued a dividend access share to the Trustee. Prior to the assimilation outlined below, 
following the announcement of a dividend by the Company on the B shares, Shell Transport and BG declared a dividend on their dividend 
access shares. 
The primary purposes of the Trust prior to the assimilation outlined below were to receive, on behalf of the B shareholders of the Company and
in accordance with their respective holdings of B shares in the Company, any amounts paid by way of dividend on the dividend access shares and 
to pay such amounts to the B shareholders on the same pro rata basis. The Trust is not subject to significant market risk, credit risk or liquidity risk. 
On January 29, 2022, one line of shares was established through assimilation of A shares and B shares into a single line of ordinary shares of the 
Company. This assimilation had no impact on voting rights or dividend entitlements. Dutch withholding tax, applied previously on dividends on 
A shares, no longer applies on dividends paid on the ordinary shares following assimilation. No further dividends are expected to be declared 
on the dividend access shares.
The Trust will continue in existence for the foreseeable future to facilitate the payment of unclaimed dividend liabilities for B shareholders,
declared prior to the assimilation of the Company's Class A and B shares, until these are either claimed or forfeited in line with the terms
outlined (see Note 4).
As these unclaimed dividends relate to dividends that were announced by the Company during the period the Company was still named Royal 
Dutch Shell plc, and it is expected that the Company will not announce any further dividends on the dividend access shares, the Trust continues
to be named The Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust.
The Trust shall not endure for a period in excess of 80 years from May 19, 2005, being the date on which the Trust Deed was executed.
2. Basis of preparation
The Financial Statements of the Trust have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 
The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and on a going concern basis. The accounting policies 
described in Note 3 have been applied consistently in all periods presented. 
The Financial Statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Trustee on March 8, 2023. 
The financial results of the Trust are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 237-307. 
3. Significant accounting policies
The Trust’s accounting policies follow those of Shell as set out in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see pages 242-252).
The following are Trust-specific policies. 
Presentation and functional currency 
The Trust’s presentation and functional currency is sterling. The Trust’s dividend income and dividends paid prior to the assimilation were principally 
in sterling.
Dividend income 
Dividends on the dividend access shares prior to the assimilation were recognised on a paid basis unless the dividend had been confirmed
by a general meeting of Shell Transport or BG, in which case income was recognised on the date on which receipt was deemed virtually certain. 
Dividend income included amounts receivable from Shell Transport and BG in respect of dividends declared but unclaimed (see Note 4).
Distributions made 
Amounts prior to the assimilation were recorded as distributed once a payment was made in the appropriate currency using various electronic 
transfer methods, or an unconditional payment obligation was established. Shell Transport or BG (as appropriate) may have, each at their 
respective discretion, withheld any part of the funding relating to an unpayable dividend until such time as the relevant B shareholder provided 
accurate or complete details for payment of any such dividend.
4. Unclaimed dividends
Unclaimed dividends of £6 million (2021: £7 million) include any pre-electronic transfer dividend cheque payments that have not been presented, 
have expired or have been returned unpresented. Dividends are also classified as unclaimed where amounts have been withheld due to 
incomplete or incorrect electronic payment details. Dividends which are unclaimed after 12 years will unconditionally revert to Shell Transport
and BG once forfeited.
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend
Access Trust Financial Statements
355 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
355
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

5. Capital account
The capital account is represented by the dividend access share of 25 pence settled in the Trust by Shell Transport and the dividend access share 
of 10 pence settled in the Trust by BG. There have been no changes in the capital account in the current or prior year.
6. Distributions made
Distributions prior to the assimilation were made to the B shareholders of the Company in accordance with the Trust Deed. See Note 29 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 303) for information about dividends per share.
7. Related parties
The Trust recognised dividend income of £0 million (2021: £1,437 million; 2020: £1,805 million) in respect of the dividend access share from Shell 
Transport and £0 million (2021: £764 million; 2020: £972 million) in respect of the dividend access share from BG. The Trust made distributions 
of £0 million (2021: £2,201 million; 2020: £2,777 million) to the B shareholders of the Company. 
As at December 31, 2022, the Trust recorded amounts due from Shell Transport of £4 million and BG of £2 million relating to unclaimed dividends 
(see Note 4).
The Company pays the general and administrative expenses of the Trust, including the auditor’s remuneration.
8. Auditor’s remuneration
Auditor’s remuneration for 2022 audit services was £53,868 (2021: £33,750; 2020: £33,750). 
Financial Statements and Supplements
Notes to the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend
Access Trust Financial Statements continued
356 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
356
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
 
Additional 
Information
358 Shareholder information
362 Non-GAAP measures reconciliations
366 Appendix 1: Significant Subsidiaries and 
Other Related Undertakings (Audited)
388 Appendix 2: Five-year financial data set 
Additional Information
357 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
357
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Shell plc (the Company) was incorporated in England and Wales on 
February 5, 2002, as a private company under the Companies Act 
1985, as amended. On October 27, 2004, the Company was re-
registered as a public company limited by shares and changed its 
name from Forthdeal Limited to Royal Dutch Shell plc. On January 21, 
2022, the Company changed its name from Royal Dutch Shell plc to 
Shell plc. The Company is registered at Companies House, Cardiff, 
under company number 4366849. The Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) 
issued by the London Stock Exchange is 21380068P1DRHMJ8KU70. 
The business address for the Directors and Senior Management is 
Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA.
On December 31, 2021, the Company became tax resident in the 
United Kingdom. Its primary objective is to carry on the business of a 
holding company. It is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by 
another corporation or by any government and does not know of any 
arrangements that may result in a change of control of the Company.
Nature of trading market
On January 29, 2022, the Company established one single line of 
ordinary shares, each having a nominal value of €0.07. All shares are 
listed and able to trade at Euronext Amsterdam and the London Stock 
Exchange. Furthermore, all shares are transferable between these two 
markets. This makes both these exchanges primary exchanges for the 
ordinary shares. 
Ordinary shares are traded in registered form. 
The Company’s American Depositary Shares (ADSs) are listed on the 
New York Stock Exchange [A]. A depositary receipt is a certificate 
that evidences ADSs. Depositary receipts are issued, cancelled and 
exchanged at the office of JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., 383 Madison 
Avenue, New York, New York 10179, USA, as depositary (the 
Depositary), under a deposit agreement between the Company, the 
Depositary and the holders of ADSs. Each ADS is equivalent to two 
ordinary shares of Shell plc deposited under the agreement. All 
ordinary shares are capable of being deposited with the Depository in 
exchange for the corresponding amount of ADSs which may be traded 
at the New York Stock Exchange. This makes the New York Stock 
Exchange the primary exchange for the Company’s ADRs. More 
information relating to ADSs is given on page 359.
[A] At February 20, 2023, 490,387,002 ADSs were outstanding, representing 14.12% of the 
ordinary share capital, held by holders of record with an address in the USA. In addition to 
holders of ADSs, at February 20, 2023, 911,437 ordinary shares of €0.07 each were 
outstanding, representing 0.0131% of the ordinary share capital, held by 3,031 holders of 
record registered with an address in the USA. 
 Listing information
 
Euronext 
Amsterdam
London Stock 
Exchange NYSE
Identifiers Ordinary share Ordinary share ADS [A]
Market Primary Primary Primary
Ticker symbol SHELL SHEL SHEL
ISIN GB00BP6MXD84 GB00BP6MXD84 US7802593050
SEDOL BP6MXT4 BP6MXD8 BPK3CG3
CUSIP G80827 101 G80827 101 780259 305
Index weight at 
31/12/22  AEX: 14.47% FTSE: 8.60%  — 
[A] Each ADS represents two ordinary shares of €0.07 each.
Share capital
On January 29, 2022 as part of the Simplification announced on 20 
December 2021, the Company’s share capital was assimilated from 
ordinary A shares and ordinary B shares, into a single line of ordinary 
shares. Below we provide information on our share capital as at 
December 31, 2022. 
 Share capital as at December 31, 2022
The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company at 
December 31, 2022, was as follows: 
 
Issued and fully paid
Number Nominal value
Ordinary shares of €0.07 each  7,003,503,393 €490,245,238
Sterling deferred shares of £1 each [A] 50,000 £50,000
[A] See Note 9 to the "Parent Company Financial Statements" on page 346. 
 Share capital as at February 20, 2023
The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company at February 20, 
2023, was as follows: 
 
Issued and fully paid
Number Nominal value
Ordinary shares of €0.07 each  6,948,045,092  €486,363,156 
Sterling deferred shares of £1 each [A] 50,000 £50,000
[A] See Note 9 to the "Parent Company Financial Statements" on page 346. 
The Directors may only allot new ordinary shares if they have authority 
from shareholders to do so. The Company seeks to renew this authority 
annually at its AGM. Under the resolution passed at the Company’s 
2022 AGM, the Directors were granted authority to allot ordinary 
shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equivalent to 
approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company (in line with the guidelines issued by institutional investors).
The following is a summary of the material terms of the Company’s 
ordinary shares, including brief descriptions of the provisions contained 
in the Articles of Association (the Articles) and applicable laws of 
England and Wales in effect on the date of this document. This 
summary does not purport to include complete statements of these 
provisions:
▪ upon issuance, the ordinary shares are fully paid and free from all 
liens, equities, charges, encumbrances and other interest of the 
Company and not subject to calls of any kind;
▪ all ordinary shares rank equally for all dividends and distributions
on ordinary share capital; and
▪ all ordinary shares are admitted to the Official List of the UK 
Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on the market for listed 
securities of the London Stock Exchange. Ordinary shares are also 
admitted to trading on Euronext Amsterdam. ADSs are listed on the 
New York Stock Exchange.
At December 31, 2022, trusts and trust-like entities holding shares 
for the benefit of employee share plans of Shell held (directly and 
indirectly) 33 million shares of the Company with an aggregate market 
value of $811 million and an aggregate nominal value of €3 million.
Additional Information
Shareholder information
358 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
358
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Significant shareholdings
The Company’s ordinary shares have voting rights on all matters that 
are subject to shareholder approval, including the election of directors. 
The Company’s major shareholders do not have different voting rights.
Notification of major shareholdings 
The Company received one notification pursuant to Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rule (DTR) 5 from Blackrock, Inc. during 
the year and up to February 20, 2023, (being a date not more
than one month prior to the date of the Company’s Notice of Annual 
General Meeting). The information provided includes the percentage
of issued capital as at the date of the notifications.
 Investor
 
Ordinary shares
Number %
Blackrock [A]  513,401,704  6.71 
[A] The notification for Blackrock was announced on February 3, 2022.
Designation of the Netherlands as EU Home Member 
State for regulatory purposes
Following the exit of the UK from the EU and the end of the transition 
period, the Company announced that the EU Home Member State of 
the Company for the purposes of the EU Transparency Directive would 
be the Netherlands as from January 1, 2021. As a consequence, the 
Company files Transparency Directive and Market Abuse Regulation-
related regulatory information with the Netherlands Authority for the 
Financial Markets (Autoriteit Financiële Markten, or AFM). Major 
shareholders are required to report substantial holdings in Shell to the 
AFM in accordance with applicable Dutch law, in addition to their 
ongoing disclosure obligations under the UK Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rules (DTR).
Method of holding shares or an interest in shares
There are several ways in which Shell plc registered shares or an 
interest in these shares can be held, including:
▪ directly as registered shares either in uncertificated form or in 
certificated form in a shareholder’s own name;
▪ indirectly through Euroclear Nederland (in respect of which the 
Dutch Securities Giro Act (Wet giraal effectenverkeer) is applicable);
▪ through the Shell Corporate Nominee Service;
▪ through another third-party nominee or intermediary company; and 
▪ as a direct or indirect holder of either ADS with the Depositary.
American Depositary Shares
The Depositary is the registered shareholder of the shares underlying 
the ADSs and enjoys the rights of a shareholder under the Articles. 
Holders of ADSs will not have shareholder rights. The rights of the 
holder of an ADS are specified in the Deposit Agreement with the 
Depositary and are summarised below.
The Depositary will receive all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions made on the deposited shares underlying the ADSs and, 
where possible and on a reasonable basis, will distribute such 
dividends and distributions to holders of ADSs. Rights to purchase 
additional shares will also be made available to the Depositary 
who may make such rights available to holders of ADSs. All other 
distributions made on the Company’s shares will be distributed by the 
Depositary in any means that the Depositary thinks is equitable and 
practical. The Depositary may deduct its fees and expenses and the 
amount of any taxes owed from any payments to holders and it may 
sell a holder’s deposited shares to pay any taxes owed. The Depositary 
is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make 
a distribution available to holders of ADSs.
The Depositary will notify holders of ADSs of shareholders’ meetings
of the Company and will arrange to deliver voting materials to such 
holders of ADSs if requested by the Company. Upon request by a 
holder, the Depositary will endeavour to appoint such holder as proxy 
in respect of such holder’s deposited shares entitling such holder 
to attend and vote at shareholders’ meetings. Holders of ADSs may 
also instruct the Depositary to vote their deposited securities and the 
Depositary will try, as far as practical and lawful, to vote deposited 
shares in accordance with such instructions. The Company cannot 
ensure that holders will receive voting materials or otherwise learn 
of an upcoming shareholders’ meeting in time to ensure that holders 
can instruct the Depositary to vote their shares.
Upon payment of appropriate fees, expenses and taxes: 
(i) shareholders may deposit their shares with the Depositary and 
receive the corresponding class and amount of ADSs; and (ii) holders 
of ADSs may surrender their ADSs to the Depositary and have the 
corresponding class and amount of shares credited to their account.
Further, subject to certain limitations, holders may, at any time, cancel 
ADSs and withdraw their underlying shares or have the corresponding 
class and amount of shares credited to their account.
Fees paid by holders of ADSs 
The Depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs 
directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for 
the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them. 
The Depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors 
by deducting those fees from the amounts distributed or by selling 
a portion of distributable property to pay the fees. The Depositary 
may generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services until its fees 
for those services are paid. See page 360.
Payments by Depositary to the Company 
J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Depositary, has agreed to share 
with the Company portions of certain fees collected, less ADS 
programme expenses paid by the Depositary. For example, these 
expenses include the Depositary’s annual programme fees, transfer 
agency fees, custody fees, legal expenses, postage and envelopes for 
mailing annual and interim financial reports, printing and distributing 
dividend cheques, electronic filing of US federal tax information, 
mailing required tax forms, stationery, postage, facsimile and 
telephone calls and the standard out-of-pocket maintenance costs 
for the ADSs. From January 1, 2022, to December 31, 2022, the 
Company received $2,744,521.66 from the Depositary.
Additional Information
Shareholder Information continued
359 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
359
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 
Persons depositing or withdrawing shares must pay: For:
$5.00 or less per 100 ADSs (or portion of 100 ADSs) ▪ Issuance of ADSs, including those resulting from a distribution of shares, rights 
or other property;
▪ Cancellation of ADSs for the purpose of their withdrawal, including if the 
deposit agreement terminates; and
▪ Distribution of securities to holders of deposited securities by the Depositary to 
ADS registered holders.
Registration and transfer fees ▪ Registration and transfer of shares on the share register to or from the name of 
the Depositary or its agent when they deposit or withdraw shares.
Expenses of the Depositary ▪ Cable, telex and facsimile transmissions (when expressly provided in the 
deposit agreement); and
▪ Converting foreign currency into dollars.
Taxes and other governmental charges the Depositary or the custodian has to 
pay on any ADS or share underlying an ADS, for example, share transfer taxes, 
stamp duty or withholding taxes
▪ As necessary.
In addition to the above, the Depositary may charge: (i) a dividend 
fee of $5.00 or less per 100 ADSs (or portion of 100 ADSs) for cash 
dividends or issuance of ADSs resulting from share dividends and (ii) 
an administrative fee of $5.00 or less per 100 ADSs (or portion of 100 
ADSs) per calendar year. The Company and Depositary have agreed 
not to charge these fees at this time.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
Equiniti Financial Services Limited, part of the same group of companies 
as the Company’s Registrar, Equiniti Limited, operates a Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) which enables Shell plc shareholders to elect 
to have their dividend payments used to purchase Shell plc ordinary 
shares. More information can be found at www.shareview.co.uk/info/
drip or by contacting Equiniti.
ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A. also operate 
dividend reinvestment options. More information can be found by 
contacting the relevant provider.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security 
holders 
Other than restrictions affecting those individuals, entities, government 
bodies, corporations, or activities that are targeted by European Union 
(EU) or UK sanctions for example, regarding Syria, Russia or North 
Korea, and the general EU prohibition to transfer funds to and from 
for example, North Korea or Syria, we are not aware of any other 
legislative or other legal provision currently in force in the UK, the 
Netherlands, the EU or arising under the Articles restricting remittances 
to holders of the Company’s ordinary shares who are non-residents 
of the UK, or affecting the import or export of capital.
Taxation 
General
The Company is incorporated in England and Wales and was tax-
resident in the Netherlands during 2021. The Company changed tax 
residence from the Netherlands to the UK on December 31, 2021.
As a tax resident of the Netherlands, it is generally required by Dutch 
law to withhold tax at a rate of 15% on dividends on its ordinary shares 
and ADSs, subject to the provisions of any applicable tax convention 
or domestic law. Depending on their particular circumstances, non-
Dutch tax-resident holders may be entitled to a full or partial refund of 
Dutch withholding tax. The following sets forth the operation of other 
provisions on dividends on the Company’s various ordinary shares and 
ADSs to UK and US holders, as well as certain other tax rules pertinent 
to holders for the 2021 financial year. Holders should consult their 
own tax adviser if they are uncertain as to the tax treatment of 
any dividend.
Dividends paid on the dividend access shares
As part of the Simplification, the A ordinary shares and B ordinary 
shares were assimilated into one single line of ordinary shares. Prior 
to the assimilation, there was no Dutch withholding tax on dividends 
on B shares or B ADSs, provided that such dividends are paid on the 
dividend access shares pursuant to the dividend access mechanism (see 
"Dividend access mechanism for B shares" on page 347). Dividends 
paid on the dividend access shares are treated as UK-source for tax 
purposes and there is no UK withholding tax on them.
In 2021, all dividends with respect to B shares and B ADSs were 
paid on the dividend access shares pursuant to the dividend 
access mechanism.
Additional Information
Shareholder Information continued
360 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
360
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Dutch withholding tax 
On January 29, 2022, one line of shares was established through 
assimilation of each A share and each B share into one single line of 
ordinary shares of the Company. This assimilation had no impact on 
voting rights or dividend entitlements. Dutch dividend withholding tax, 
applied previously on dividends on A shares, no longer applies on 
dividends paid on the now assimilated ordinary shares following 
the move of the Company’s tax residence to the UK. 
The following applies to dividends paid in the 2021 and prior financial 
years and is included in the report for reference:
When Dutch withholding tax applies on dividends paid to a US holder 
(that is, dividends on A shares or A ADSs, or on B shares or B ADSs 
that are not paid on the dividend access shares pursuant to the 
dividend access mechanism), the US holder will be subject to Dutch 
withholding tax at the rate of 15%. A US holder who is entitled to the 
benefits of the 1992 Double Taxation Convention (the Convention) 
between the USA and the Netherlands as amended by the protocol 
signed on March 8, 2004, will be entitled to a reduction in the Dutch 
withholding tax, either by way of a full or a partial exemption at source 
or by way of a partial refund or a credit as follows:
▪ if the US holder is an exempt pension trust as described in article 35 
of the Convention, or an exempt organisation as described in article 
36 thereof, the US holder will be exempt from Dutch withholding tax; 
or 
▪ if the US holder is a company that holds directly at least 10% of the 
voting power in the Company, the US holder will be subject to Dutch 
withholding tax at a rate not exceeding 5%.
In general, the entire dividend (including any amount withheld) will 
be dividend income to the US holder and the withholding tax will 
be treated as a foreign income tax that is eligible for credit against 
the US holder’s income tax liability or a deduction subject to certain 
limitations. A "US holder" includes, but is not limited to, a citizen or 
resident of the USA, or a corporation or other entity organised under 
the laws of the USA or any of its political subdivisions.
When Dutch withholding tax applies on dividends paid to UK tax-
resident holders (that is, dividends on A shares or A ADSs, or on B 
shares or B ADSs that are not paid on the dividend access shares 
pursuant to the dividend access mechanism), the dividend will typically 
be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 15%. Such UK tax-resident 
holder may be entitled to a credit (not repayable) for withholding tax 
against their UK tax liability. However, certain corporate shareholders 
are, subject to conditions, exempt from UK tax on dividends. 
Withholding tax suffered cannot be offset against such exempt 
dividends. UK tax-resident holders should also be entitled to claim a 
refund of one-third of the Dutch withholding tax from the Dutch tax 
authorities in reliance on the tax convention between the Netherlands 
and the UK. Pension plans meeting certain defined criteria can, 
however, be entitled to claim a full refund or exemption at source of the 
dividend tax withheld. Also, UK tax-resident corporate shareholders 
holding at least a 5% shareholding and meeting other defined criteria 
are exempted at source from dividend tax.
For holders who are tax-resident in any other country, the availability 
of a whole or partial exemption or refund of Dutch withholding tax is 
governed by Dutch tax law and/or the tax convention, if any, between 
the Netherlands and the country of the holder’s residence.
There may be other grounds on which holders who are tax-resident in 
the UK, the USA or any other country can obtain a full or partial refund 
of the Dutch withholding tax, depending on their particular 
circumstances; see "Taxation: General" above.
Dutch capital gains taxation
Capital gains on the sale of shares of a Dutch tax-resident company by 
a US holder are generally not subject to taxation by the Netherlands 
unless the US holder has a permanent establishment therein and the 
capital gain is derived from the sale of shares that are part of the 
business property of the permanent establishment.
Dutch succession duty and gift taxes
Shares of a Dutch tax-resident company held by an individual 
who is not a resident or a deemed resident of the Netherlands 
will generally not be subject to succession duty in the Netherlands
on the individual’s death.
A gift of shares of a Dutch tax-resident company by an individual who 
is not a resident or a deemed resident of the Netherlands is generally 
not subject to Dutch gift tax.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax
Sales or transfers of the Company’s ordinary shares within a clearance 
service (such as Euroclear Nederland) or of the Company’s ADSs 
within the ADS depositary receipts system will not give rise to a stamp 
duty reserve tax (SDRT) liability and should not in practice require the 
payment of UK stamp duty.
The transfer of the Company’s ordinary shares to a clearance service 
(such as Euroclear Nederland) or to an issuer of depositary shares 
(such as ADSs) will generally give rise to a UK stamp duty or SDRT 
liability at the rate of 1.5% of consideration given or, if none, of the 
value of the shares. A sale of the Company’s ordinary shares that are 
not held within a clearance service (for example, settled through the 
UK’s CREST system of paperless transfers) will generally be subject 
to UK stamp duty or SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount of the 
consideration, normally paid by the purchaser.
Capital gains tax 
For the purposes of UK capital gains tax, the market values [A] of the shares of the former public parent companies of the Shell Group at the 
relevant dates were:
 
£
March 31, 1982 July 20, 2005
Royal Dutch Petroleum Company (N.V. Koninklijke Nederlandsche Petroleum Maatschappij) which ceased to exist on December 
21, 2005  1.1349  17.6625 
The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company, p.l.c. which delisted on July 19, 2005
 1.4502 
Not
applicable
[A] Restated where applicable to reflect all capitalisation issues since the relevant date. This includes the change in the capital structure in 2005, when Shell plc (at the time known as Royal Dutch 
Shell plc) became the single parent company of Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and of The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company, p.l.c., now The Shell Transport and Trading Company 
Limited, and one share in Royal Dutch Petroleum Company was exchanged for two Royal Dutch Shell plc A shares and one share in The "Shell" Transport and Trading Company, p.l.c. was 
exchanged for 0.287333066 Royal Dutch Shell plc B shares. 
Additional Information
Shareholder Information continued
361 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
361
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

These non-GAAP measures, also known as alternative performance 
measures, are financial measures other than those defined in 
International Financial Reporting Standards, which Shell considers 
provide useful information. With effect from January 1, 2022, the 
reporting segments are aligned with Shell’s Powering Progress strategy. 
The Renewables and Energy Solutions business is now reported 
separately from Integrated Gas. Shales assets in Canada are now 
reported as part of the Integrated Gas segment instead of the 
Upstream segment. The Oil Products and Chemicals segments are 
reorganised into two segments – Marketing, and Chemicals and 
Products. Prior period comparatives have been revised to conform 
with current year presentation. The reporting segment changes have 
no impact at a Group level.
Earnings on a current cost of supplies basis
Segment earnings are presented on a current cost of supplies basis 
(CCS earnings), which is the earnings measure used by the Chief 
Executive Officer for the purposes of making decisions about allocating 
resources and assessing performance. On this basis, the purchase price 
of volumes sold during the period is based on the current cost of 
supplies during the same period after making allowance for the tax 
effect. CCS earnings therefore exclude the effect of changes in the 
oil price on inventory carrying amounts. The current cost of supplies 
adjustment does not impact cash flow from operating activities in 
the "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows".
 Reconciliation of income for the period to CCS earnings
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Income/(loss) attributable to Shell plc 
shareholders  42,309  20,101  (21,680) 
Income/(loss) attributable to non-controlling 
interest  565  529  146 
Income/(loss) for the period  42,874  20,630  (21,534) 
Current cost of supplies adjustment  (1,312)  (3,148)  1,833 
Of which:
Attributable to Shell plc shareholders  (1,196)  (3,029)  1,759 
Attributable to non-controlling interest  (116)  (119)  74 
CCS earnings  41,562  17,482  (19,701) 
Of which:
Attributable to Shell plc shareholders  41,113  17,072  (19,921) 
Attributable to non-controlling interest  449  410  220 
Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA)
The "Adjusted Earnings" measure aims to facilitate a comparative understanding of Shell’s financial performance from period to period by 
removing the effects of oil price changes on inventory carrying amounts and removing the effects of identified items. These items are in some cases 
driven by external factors and may, either individually or collectively, hinder the comparative understanding of Shell’s financial results from period 
to period.
The "Adjusted EBITDA (CCS basis)" measure is used by management to evaluate Shell’s performance in the period and over time. We define 
"Adjusted EBITDA (CCS basis)" as "Income/(loss) for the period" adjusted for current cost of supplies; identified items; tax charge/(credit); 
depreciation, amortisation and depletion; exploration well write-offs and net interest expense. All items include the non-controlling interest 
component. 
 Adjusted Earnings
 
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Shell IG UP Mark C&P R&ES Corp Shell IG UP Mark C&P R&ES Corp Shell IG UP Mark C&P R&ES Corp
CCS Earnings [A]  41,562  22,212  16,222  2,133  4,515  (1,059)  (2,461)  17,482  8,060  9,603  3,535  404  (1,514)  (2,606)  (19,701)  (7,230)  (9,300)  4,081  (3,821)  (479)  (2,952) 
Less: Identified items  1,259  6,075  (1,096)  (622)  (204)  (2,805)  (90)  (2,235)  (988)  1,587  68  (1,712)  (1,272)  81  (24,777)  (11,443)  (6,874)  13  (6,656)  (277)  460 
Adjusted Earnings - 
segments  16,137  17,319  2,754  4,719  1,745  (2,371)  9,048  8,015  3,468  2,115  (243)  (2,686)  4,213  (2,426)  4,068  2,835  (202)  (3,412) 
Less: CCS earnings 
attributable to NCI 
 449  410  220 
Add: Identified items 
attributable to NCI
 15  (19)  (10) 
Adjusted Earnings  39,870  19,289  4,846 
[A] See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 265-269.
[B] Non-controlling interest (NCI).
[C] Segments above are as follows: Integrated Gas (IG); Upstream (UP); Marketing (Mark); Chemicals and Products (C&P); Renewables and Energy Solutions (R&ES); and Corporate (Corp).
Additional Information
Non-GAAP measures reconciliations
362 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
362
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

 Adjusted EBITDA
 
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Shell IG UP Mark C&P R&ES Corp Shell IG UP Mark C&P R&ES Corp Shell IG UP Mark C&P R&ES Corp
Adjusted Earnings  39,870  19,289  4,846 
Add: NCI  434  429  230 
Adjusted Earnings plus NCI  40,304  16,137  17,319  2,754  4,719  1,745  (2,371)  19,718  9,048  8,015  3,468  2,115  (243)  (2,686)  5,076  4,213  (2,426)  4,068  2,835  (202)  (3,412) 
Add: Taxation charge/(credit) 
excluding tax impact of 
identified items
 18,578  4,704  11,831  952  841  346  (96)  8,482  2,231  5,662  955  277  (55)  (588)  2,252  1,314  992  893  (398)  (14)  (535) 
Add: Depreciation, depletion 
and amortisation excluding 
impairments
 22,393  5,544  11,889  1,573  3,004  365  18  23,071  5,389  12,574  1,575  3,235  281  17  24,981  5,851  13,805  1,455  3,604  244  22 
Add: Exploration well write-offs  881  142  738  —  639  15  624  —  815  452  363  — 
Add: Interest expense excluding 
identified items
 3,181  84  345  45  22  2  2,683  3,607  71  331  26  44  —  3,135  4,089  78  368  43  15  3  3,582 
Less: Interest income  1,046  43  22  —  24  (2)  959  511  —  37  3  36  4  431  679  —  56  4  25  5  589 
Adjusted EBITDA (CCS basis)  84,289  26,569  42,100  5,324  8,561  2,459  (725)  55,004  16,754  27,170  6,021  5,635  (21)  (554)  36,533  11,908  13,045  6,455  6,032  25  (933) 
[A] Non-controlling interest (NCI).
[B] Segments above are as follows: Integrated Gas (IG); Upstream (UP); Marketing (Mark); Chemicals and Products (C&P); Renewables and Energy Solutions (R&ES); and Corporate (Corp).
 Identified items
The objective of identified items is to remove material impacts on net income/loss arising from transactions which are generally uncontrollable 
and unusual (infrequent or non-recurring) in nature or giving rise to a mismatch of accounting and economic results, or certain transactions that 
are generally excluded from underlying results in the industry.
 
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Identified items included in Income/(loss) before taxation
Divestment gains/(losses)  657  5,996  316 
Impairment reversals/(impairments)  2,260  (3,884)  (28,061) 
Redundancy and restructuring  44  (227)  (883) 
Provisions for onerous contracts  (508)  (340)  (1,392) 
Fair value accounting of commodity derivatives and certain gas contracts  3,244  (3,249)  (1,151) 
Other  (1,519) [A]  (621)  (706) 
Total identified items included in Income/(loss) before taxation  4,178  (2,326)  (31,877) 
Total identified items included in Taxation charge/(credit)  (2,919) [B]  91  7,100 
Identified items included in Income/(loss) for the period  1,259  (2,235)  (24,777) 
Divestment gains/(losses)  418  4,632  4 
Impairment reversals/(impairments)  725  (2,993)  (21,267) 
Redundancy and restructuring  43  (140)  (644) 
Provisions for onerous contracts  (487)  (299)  (1,120) 
Fair value accounting of commodity derivatives and certain gas contracts  3,421  (2,764)  (1,034) 
Impact of exchange rate movements on tax balances  (57)  (128)  (240) 
Other  (2,804) [C]  (543)  (475) 
Impact on CCS earnings  1,259  (2,235)  (24,777) 
Of which:
Integrated Gas  6,075  (988)  (11,443) 
Upstream  (1,096)  1,587  (6,874) 
Marketing  (622)  68  13 
Chemicals and Products  (204)  (1,712)  (6,656) 
Renewables and Energy Solutions  (2,805)  (1,272)  (277) 
Corporate  (90)  81  460 
Identified items attributable to Non-controlling interest  15  (19)  (10) 
Identified items attributable to Shell plc shareholders  1,243  (2,216)  (24,767) 
[A] Includes $(940) million related to the EU solidarity contribution.
[B] Includes $(528) million related to the EU solidarity contribution and $(802) million related to the UK Energy Profits Levy.
[C] Includes $(2,270) million related to the EU solidarity contribution and to the UK Energy Profits Levy.
Additional Information
Non-GAAP measures reconciliations continued
363 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
363
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Cash capital expenditure 
Cash capital expenditure monitors investing activities on a cash basis, excluding items such as lease additions which do not necessarily result 
in cash outflows in the period. The measure comprises the following lines from the Consolidated Statement of Cash flows: Capital expenditure, 
Investments in joint ventures and associates and Investments in equity securities.
The reconciliation of "Capital expenditure" to "Cash capital expenditure" is as follows.
 Cash capital expenditure
 
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Shell IG UP Mark C&P R&ES Corp Shell IG UP Mark C&P R&ES Corp Shell IG UP Mark C&P R&ES Corp
Capital expenditure [A]  22,600  3,432  8,020  4,527  3,835  2,609  175  19,000  3,306  6,277  2,122  5,091  2,069  135  16,585  3,491  6,714  1,684  4,163  363  169 
Investments in joint ventures 
and associates [A]  1,973  833  123  304  2  703  9  479  196  (109)  149  80  154  10  1,024  68  379  84  34  458  — 
Investments in equity 
securities [A]
 260  —  —  —  1  157  103  218  —  3  4  136  75  218  7  6  6  1  107  92 
Cash capital expenditure  24,833  4,265  8,143  4,831  3,838  3,469  287  19,698  3,502  6,168  2,273  5,175  2,359  221  17,827  3,566  7,099  1,774  4,198  928  262 
[A] Included within Cash flow from investing activities in the "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows". 
[B] Segments above are as follows: Integrated Gas (IG); Upstream (UP); Marketing (Mark); Chemicals and Products (C&P); Renewables and Energy Solutions (R&ES); and Corporate (Corp).
Operating expenses and underlying operating expenses
Operating expenses is a measure of Shell’s cost management performance, comprising the following items from the "Consolidated Statement of 
Income": production and manufacturing expenses; selling, distribution and administrative expenses; and research and development expenses.
Underlying operating expenses is a measure aimed at facilitating a comparative understanding of performance from period to period by 
removing the effects of identified items, which, either individually or collectively, can cause volatility, in some cases driven by external factors.
 Operating expenses and underlying operating expenses
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Shell IG UP Mark C&P R&ES Corp Shell IG UP Mark C&P R&ES Corp Shell IG UP Mark C&P R&ES Corp
Production and 
manufacturing expenses  25,518  4,907  9,676  810  7,583  2,520  22  23,822  4,194  9,797  950  6,815  2,098  (32)  24,001  4,957  10,195  779  6,952  1,091  27 
Selling, distribution and 
administrative expenses
 12,883  218  233  7,351  3,592  972  517  11,328  231  186  6,384  3,375  596  556  9,881  60  (31)  5,380  3,391  606  475 
Research and development  1,075  112  456  222  187  98  —  815  101  339  167  157  51  —  907  84  486  147  171  19  — 
Total  39,477  5,238  10,364  8,384  11,361  3,590  540  35,964  4,526  10,324  7,501  10,347  2,745  524  34,789  5,100  10,650  6,305  10,514  1,716  505 
Identified items  (21)  (354)  438  (103)  7  (7)  (1)  (655)  (230)  (238)  (135)  (48)  (8)  4  (2,287)  (782)  (756)  (144)  (597)  (5)  (3) 
Underlying operating 
expenses
 39,456  4,884  10,802  8,281  11,368  3,583  539  35,309  4,295  10,086  7,366  10,298  2,737  527  32,502  4,318  9,894  6,161  9,916  1,711  501 
[A] Segments above are as follows: Integrated Gas (IG); Upstream (UP); Marketing (Mark); Chemicals and Products (C&P); Renewables and Energy Solutions (R&ES); and Corporate (Corp)
Additional Information
Non-GAAP measures reconciliations continued
364 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
364
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Return on average capital employed
Return on average capital employed (ROACE) measures the efficiency 
of our utilisation of the capital that we employ. In this calculation, 
ROACE is defined as income for the period, adjusted for after-tax 
interest expense, as a percentage of the average capital employed 
for the period. Capital employed consists of total equity, current 
debt and non-current debt.
 Calculation of return on average capital employed
 
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Income for the period  42,874  20,630  (21,534) 
Interest expense after tax  2,290  2,741  2,822 
Income before interest expense  45,164  23,371  (18,712) 
Capital employed - opening  264,413  266,551  286,887 
Capital employed - closing  276,392  264,413  266,551 
Capital employed - average  270,402  265,482  276,719 
ROACE  16.7 %  8.8 %  (6.8) %
Net debt and gearing
Net debt is defined as the sum of current and non-current debt, less 
cash and cash equivalents, adjusted for the fair value of derivative 
financial instruments used to hedge foreign exchange and interest 
rate risk relating to debt, and associated collateral balances.
Gearing is a measure of Shell’s capital structure and is defined as 
net debt (total debt less cash and cash equivalents) as a percentage 
of total capital (net debt plus total equity). 
Calculation of net debt and gearing
 
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Current debt  9,001  8,218  16,899 
Non-current debt  74,794  80,868  91,115 
Total debt  83,795  89,086  108,014 
Add: Debt-related derivative financial 
instruments: net liability / (asset)  3,071  424  (1,979) 
Add: Collateral on debt-related : net liability / 
(asset)  (1,783)  16  1,181 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents  (40,246)  (36,970)  (31,830) 
Net Debt  44,837  52,556  75,386 
Add: Total equity  192,597  175,326  158,537 
Total capital  237,434  227,882  233,923 
Gearing  18.9 %  23.1 %  32.2 %
Free cash flow and organic free cash flow
Free cash flow is used to evaluate cash available for financing 
activities, including shareholder distributions and debt servicing, 
after investment in maintaining and growing our business. 
Organic free cash flow is defined as Free cash flow excluding the 
cash flows from acquisition and divestment activities. It is a measure 
used by management to evaluate generation of cash flow without 
these activities. 
 Free cash flow and Organic free cash flow
 
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Cash flow from operating activities  68,414  45,104  34,105 
Cash flow from investing activities  (22,448)  (4,761)  (13,278) 
Free cash flow  45,965  40,343  20,828 
Less: Cash inflows related to divestments [A]  2,059  15,113  4,010 
Add: Tax paid on divestments  17  188  — 
Add: Cash outflows related to inorganic 
capital expenditure [B]  4,205  1,658  817 
Organic free cash flow  48,128  27,076  17,634 
[A] Cash inflows related to divestments includes Proceeds from sale of property, plant and 
equipment and businesses, Proceeds from joint ventures and associates from sale, capital 
reduction and repayment of long-term loans, and Proceeds from sale of equity securities as 
reported in the "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows".
[B] Cash outflows related to inorganic capital expenditure includes portfolio actions which 
expand Shell's activities through acquisitions and restructuring activities as reported in 
capital expenditure lines in the "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows". 
Shareholder distribution
Shareholder distribution is used to evaluate the level of cash 
distribution to shareholders. It is defined as the sum of Cash dividends 
paid to Shell plc shareholders and Repurchases of shares, both of 
which are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 
 Calculation of shareholder distribution
 
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Cash dividends paid to Shell plc shareholders  (7,405)  (6,253)  (7,424) 
Repurchases of shares  (18,437)  (2,889)  (1,702) 
Shareholder distribution  (25,842)  (9,142)  (9,126) 
Divestment proceeds
Divestment proceeds represent cash received from divestment activities 
in the period. Management regularly monitors this measure as a key 
lever to deliver sustainable cash flow. 
 Calculation of divestment proceeds
 
$ million
2022 2021 2020
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and 
equipment and businesses  1,431  14,233  2,489 
Proceeds from joint ventures and associates 
from sale, capital reduction and repayment of 
long-term loans  511  584  1,240 
Proceeds from sale of equity securities  117  296  281 
Divestment proceeds  2,059  15,113  4,010 
Of which:
Integrated Gas  241  3,931  486 
Upstream  558  10,147  1,903 
Marketing  266  42  56 
Chemicals and Products  776  903  1,338 
Renewables and Energy Solutions  191  47  22 
Corporate  26  44  205 
Additional Information
Non-GAAP measures reconciliations continued
365 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
365
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Appendices
Additional Information
366
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited)
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings at December 31, 2022, are set out below. These are included in the "Consolidated 
Financial Statements" on pages 237-307. Shell’s percentage of share capital is shown to the nearest whole number. Subsidiaries are disclosed 
separately from all other undertakings. Subsidiaries directly held by the Company are marked with the annotation *. A number of the entities listed 
are dormant or not yet operational. Entities that are proportionately consolidated are identified by the annotation [a]. Shell-owned shares are 
ordinary (voting) shares unless identified with one of the following annotations against the company name: [b] Membership interest; [c] 
Partnership capital; [d] Non-redeemable; [e] Ordinary, Partnership capital; [f] Ordinary, Redeemable; [g] Ordinary, Redeemable, Non-
redeemable; and [h] Redeemable, Non-redeemable.
Subsidiaries including Shell plc Direct Holdings
ARGENTINA
AVENIDA PTE. ROQUE SÁENZ PENA 788, 2ND FLOOR, CIUDAD DE BUENOS AIRES, 
1035
Shell Argentina S.A. 100
AUSTRALIA
LEVEL 15, 357 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC 3000
Powershop Australia Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Operations No. 2 Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Retail Finance Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Retail Markets Pty Ltd 100
LEVEL 30, 275 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE, QLD 4000
BC 789 Holdings Pty Ltd 100
BG CPS Pty Limited 100
BNG (SURAT) PTY. LTD. 100
CCM Energy Solutions Pty Ltd 100
Condamine 1 Pty Ltd 100
Condamine 2 Pty Ltd 100
Condamine 3 Pty Ltd 100
Condamine 4 Pty Ltd 100
Condamine Power Station Pty Ltd 100
ERM Braemar 3 Power Pty Ltd 100
ERM Braemar 3 Pty Ltd 100
ERM Employee Share Plan Administrator Pty Ltd 100
ERM Energy Solutions Holdings Pty Ltd 100
ERM Financial Services Pty Ltd 100
ERM Holdings Pty Ltd 100
ERM Land Holdings Pty Ltd 100
ERM Neerabup Power Pty Ltd 100
ERM Power International Pty Ltd 100
ERM Power Investments Pty Ltd 100
ERM Power Services Pty Ltd 100
ERM Power Utility Systems Pty Ltd 100
ERM Wellington 1 Holdings Pty Ltd 100
Gangarri Solar Farm Pty Ltd 100
Greensense Pty Ltd 100
Lumaled Pty Ltd 100
NATURE BASED SOLUTIONS PTY LTD 100
New South Oil Pty Ltd 100
OME RESOURCES AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. 100
Petroleum Resources (Thailand) Pty. Limited 100
Powermetric Metering Pty Ltd 100
Pure Energy Resources Pty Limited 100
QCLNG Operating Company Pty Ltd [f] 75
QCLNG Pty Ltd 100
QGC (B7) Pty Ltd 100
QGC (Exploration) Pty Ltd 100
QGC (Infrastructure) Pty Ltd 100
QGC Common Facilities Company Pty Ltd 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
QGC Holdings 2 Pty Ltd 100
QGC Holdings 3 Pty Ltd 100
QGC Holdings 4 Pty Ltd 100
QGC Holdings 5 Pty Ltd 100
QGC Holdings 6 Pty Ltd 100
QGC Holdings 7 Pty Ltd 100
QGC Holdings 8 Pty Ltd 100
QGC Holdings 9 Pty Ltd 100
QGC Midstream Holdings Pty Ltd 100
QGC Midstream Investments Pty Ltd 100
QGC Midstream Land Pty Ltd 100
QGC Midstream Limited Partnership 100
QGC Midstream Services Pty Ltd 100
QGC Northern Forestry Pty Ltd 100
QGC Pty Limited 100
QGC Sales Qld Pty Ltd 100
QGC Train 1 Pty Ltd 100
QGC Train 1 Tolling Pty Ltd 100
QGC Train 1 UJV Manager Pty Ltd 100
QGC Train 2 Pty Ltd 100
QGC Train 2 Tolling No.2 Pty Ltd 100
QGC Train 2 Tolling Pty Ltd 100
QGC Train 2 UJV Manager Pty Ltd 100
QGC Upstream Finance Pty Ltd 100
QGC Upstream Holdings Pty Ltd 100
QGC Upstream Investments Pty Ltd 100
QUEENSLAND ELECTRICITY INVESTORS PTY. LTD. 100
QUEENSLAND GAS COMPANY PTY LIMITED 100
Richmond Valley Solar Thermal Pty Ltd 100
Roma Petroleum Pty Limited 100
Select Carbon Pty Ltd 100
SGA (Queensland) Pty Ltd 100
SGAI Pty Limited 100
Shell Energy Australia Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy BESS 1 Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Certificate Trading Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Engineering Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Environmental Products Australia Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Neerabup Pty Ltd 100
SHELL ENERGY OPERATIONS NO. 2 HOLDINGS PTY LTD 100
Shell Energy Operations Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Power Generation Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Projects Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Retail Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Wallerawang 9 BESS Pty Ltd 100
Shell New Energies Australia Pty Ltd 100
Shell QGC Pty Ltd 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information
Appendix 1
367 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
367
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

AUSTRALIA continued
Starzap Pty Ltd 100
Sunshine 685 Pty Limited 100
Walloons Coal Seam Gas Company Pty Limited [f] 75
LEVEL 52, 111 EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE, QLD 4000
ERM Innovation Labs Pty Ltd 100
SHELL HOUSE, 562 WELLINGTON STREET, PERTH, WA 6000
Austen & Butta Pty Ltd 100
North West Shelf LNG Pty Ltd 100
SASF PTY. LTD. 100
Shell Australia FLNG Pty Ltd 100
Shell Australia Pty Ltd 100
Shell Australia Services Company Pty Ltd 100
Shell Development (PSC19) Pty Ltd 100
Shell Development (PSC20) Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Holdings Australia Limited 100
Shell Global Solutions Australia Pty Ltd 100
Shell Tankers Australia Pty Ltd 100
Trident LNG Shipping Services Pty Ltd 100
TENANCY 6, LIONSGATE BUSINESS PARK, 180 PHILIP HIGHWAY, ELIZABETH SOUTH, 
SA 5112
Sonnen Australia Pty Limited 100
LEVEL 25, 275 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE, QLD 4000
QGC Upstream Limited Partnership 100
QGC LIMITED, LEVEL 30, 275 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE, QLD 4000
E.R.M. Oakey Power Pty Ltd 100
Oakey Power Holdings Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Oakey Power Holdings Pty Ltd 100
Shell Energy Power Developments Pty Ltd 100
AUSTRIA
FRANZ-JOSEFS-KAI 27, VIENNA, 1010
Next Kraftwerke AT GmbH 100
SCHULHOF 6/1, VIENNA, 1010
Shell China Holding GmbH 100
TECH GATE, DONAU-CITY-STR. 1, VIENNA, 1220
SHELL AUSTRIA GESELLSCHAFT M.B.H. 100
Shell Brazil Holding GmbH 100
BAHAMAS
GTC CORPORATE SERVICES LIMITED, SASSOON HOUSE, SHIRLEY STREET & VICTORIA 
AVENUE, NASSAU
Shell Western Supply and Trading Limited 100
P.O. BOX N4805, ST. ANDREW'S COURT, FREDERICK STREET STEPS, NASSAU
Shell Bahamas Power Company Inc. 100
BARBADOS
ONE WELCHES, WELCHES, ST. THOMAS, BB22025
Shell Trinidad and Tobago Resources SRL 100
BELGIUM
BORSBEEKSEBRUG 34/1, ANTWERPEN, 2600
Shell EV Charging Solutions Belgium 100
CANTERSTEEN 47, BRUSSELS, 1000
Belgian Shell 100
New Market Belgium 100
PALEIZENSTRAAT 153 RUE DES PALAIS, GEBOUW/BÂTIMENT: LUSTRERIE, BRUSSELS, 
1030
Next Kraftwerke Belgium 100
PANTSERSCHIPSTRAAT 331, GENT, 9000
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Belgium N.V. 100
BERMUDA
3RD FLOOR CONTINENTAL BUILDING, 25 CHURCH STREET, HAMILTON, HM 12
Gas Investments & Services Company Limited 85
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Qatar Shell GTL Limited 100
Shell Holdings (Bermuda) Limited 100
Shell Markets (Middle East) Limited 100
Shell Oman Trading Limited 100
Shell Petroleum (Malaysia) Ltd 100
Shell Saudi Arabia (Refining) Limited 100
Shell Trust (Bermuda) Limited 100
Solen Life Insurance Limited 100
BOLIVIA
ABDON SAAVEDRA N° 2265, SOPOCACHI, LA PAZ
Pennzoil Bolivia S.A. 100
BRAZIL
ÁREA RURAL DE JANAÚBA, S/Nº, STATE OF MINAS GERAIS, JANAÚBA, 39.448-899
BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE II LTDA. 100
BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE III LTDA. 100
BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE IV LTDA. 100
BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE IX LTDA 100
BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE LTDA. 100
BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE V LTDA. 100
BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE VI LTDA 100
BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE VII LTDA 100
BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE VIII LTDA 100
Brenergy Geração Solar Janaúba SPE X Ltda. 100
BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE XI LTDA 100
BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE XII LTDA 100
BRENERGY GERACAO SOLAR JANAUBA SPE XIII LTDA. 100
AV REPUBLICA DO CHILE 330, BLC 2 SAL 2301, CENTRO, RIO DE JANEIRO, 20031-170
Heze Holding II LTDA 100
AV REPUBLICA DO CHILE, 330 BLC 2 SAL 2401, RIO DE JANEIRO, 20031170
Shell Brasil Renewables & Energy Solutions Ltda 100
AVENIDA BRIGADEIRO FARIA LIMA Nº 3.311, CONJUNTO 82, ITAIM BIBI, SÃO PAULO, 
04538-133
Shell Energy do Brasil Ltda. 100
AVENIDA DAS REPUBLICA DO CHILE 330, 23º ANDAR (PARTE) - TORRE 2, CENTRO, RIO 
DE JANEIRO, 20031-170
BG Petroleo & Gas Brasil Ltda. 100
AVENIDA DAS REPUBLICA DO CHILE 330, 23º ANDAR, TORRE 2, CENTRO, RIO DE 
JANEIRO, 20031-170
BG Comercio e Importacao Ltda. 100
AVENIDA REPÚBLICA DO CHILE Nº 330, BLOCO 2, SALA 2001, CENTRO, RIO DE 
JANEIRO, 20031-170
SHELL BRASIL PETROLEO LTDA. 100
Shell Energy do Brasil Gás Ltda. 100
AVENIDA REPÚBLICA DO CHILE Nº 330, BLOCO 2, SALA 2301, CENTRO, RIO DE 
JANEIRO, 20031-170
Pecten do Brasil Servicos de Petroleo Ltda. 100
AVENIDA REPÚBLICA DO CHILE Nº 330, BLOCO 2, SALA 2401, CENTRO, RIO DE 
JANEIRO, 20031-170
Seapos Ltda. 100
NO 330,ROOM 2301, AVENIDA REPÚBLICA DO CHILE, BUILDING 2, RIO DE JANEIRO, 
20031-170
Heze I Holding S.A. 100
AVENIDA BRIGADEIRO FARIA LIMA, ITAIM BIBI, SAO PAULO, 4538133
SHELL TRADING BRASIL LTDA 100
BRUNEI
C/O BSP HEAD OFFICE, NDCO BLOCK, GROUND FLOOR, JALAN UTARA, PANAGA 
SERIA, KB3534
Shell Borneo Sendirian Berhad 100
BULGARIA
48, SITNYAKOVO BLVD., SERDIKA OFFICES, 8TH FLOOR, SOFIA, 1505
Shell Bulgaria Ead 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
368 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
368
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

CAMBODIA
186C, STREET NO. 155, N/A - TUOL TUMPUNG MUOY, CHAMKAR MON, PHNOM 
PENH
Angkor Resources Company Limited 49
OFFICE NO. 186 C, STREET 155 SANGKAT TOUL TUMPOUNG I, KHAN 
CHAMKAMORN, PHNOM PENH
Shell Company of Cambodia Limited S.A. 100
CANADA
2100, 855 - 2ND STREET S.W., CALGARY, ALBERTA, T2P 4J8
1745844 Alberta Ltd. 50
400 4TH AVENUE S.W, CALGARY, ALBERTA, T2P 0J4
10084751 Canada Limited 100
7026609 Canada Inc. 100
7645929 Canada Limited 100
Cansolv Technologies Inc. 100
Coral Cibola Canada Inc. 100
SCL Pipeline Inc. 100
Shell Americas Funding (Canada) Limited 100
Shell Canada BROS Inc. 100
Shell Canada Energy [b] 100
Shell Canada Limited 100
Shell Canada OP Inc. 100
Shell Canada Products 100
Shell Canada Services Limited 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Canada Inc. 100
Shell Chemicals Canada [b] 100
Shell Energy North America (Canada) Inc. 100
Shell Global Solutions Canada Inc. 100
Shell Quebec Limitée 100
Shell Trading Canada [b] 100
Zeco Systems (Canada) Inc. 100
CAYMAN ISLANDS
CALEDONIAN TRUST (CAYMAN) LIMITED, CALEDONIAN HOUSE, 69 DR ROY'S DRIVE 
P.O. BOX 1043, GEORGE TOWN, GRAND CAYMAN, KY1-1102
Schiehallion Oil & Gas Limited 100
CAMPBELLS, FLOOR 4, WILLOW HOUSE, CRICKET SQUARE, GEORGE TOWN, 
GRAND CAYMAN, KY1-9010
BG Exploration and Production India Limited 100
MAPLES CORPORATE SERVICES LIMITED, UGLAND HOUSE, P.O. BOX 309, GEORGE 
TOWN, GRAND CAYMAN, KY1-1104
Shell North Sea Holdings Limited 100
PICCADILLY CENTRE, 28 ELGIN AVENUE, SUITE 201, P.O. BOX 2570, GEORGE TOWN, 
GRAND CAYMAN, KY1-1103
BG EGYPT SA 100
Gas Resources Limited 100
Shell Bolivia Corporation 100
STERLING TRUST (CAYMAN) LIMITED, WHITEHALL HOUSE, 238 NORTH CHURCH 
STREET, P.O. BOX 1043, GEORGE TOWN, GRAND CAYMAN, KY1-1102
Beryl North Sea Limited 100
CHILE
C/O CAREY Y CIA ABOGADOS, MIRAFLORES 222, PISO 28, SANTIAGO
Shell Chile S.A. 100
CHINA
30/F UNIT 01-02, NO. 16 BUILDING, NO. 1 COURTYARD, JIAN GUO MEN WAI 
AVENUE, CHAOYANG DISTRICT, BEIJING, 100004
Shell (China) Limited 100
8/F, BUILDING 1, NO. 818 SHENCHANG ROAD, MINHANG DISTRICT, SHANGHAI, 
201106
Shell Management and Consulting Company Limited 100
Shell Ventures Company Limited 100
8/F, NO. 818 SHENCHANG ROAD, MINHANG DISTRICT, SHANGHAI, 201107
Shell (Shanghai) Petroleum Company Limited 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
BUILDING 4, JIN CHUANG BUILDING, NO. 4560, JIN KE ROAD, PILOT FREE TRADE 
ZONE, SHANGHAI
Shell (Shanghai) Technology Limited 100
NANJIN WAN, GAOLAN DAO, GAOLAN HARBOUR ECONOMIC ZONE, ZHUHAI, 
519050
Shell (Zhuhai) Lubricants Company Limited 100
NO. 1 WANGJIABA, XINMIAOZHI VILLAGE, PUYUAN TOWN, TONGXIANG, JIAXING, 
ZHEJIANG, 314502
Shell (Zhejiang) Petroleum Trading Limited 100
NO. 286 NANSAN ROAD, TIANJIN HARBOUR NANJIANG DEV. ZONE, TANGGU, 
BINHAI NEWDISTRICT, TIANJIN, 300452
Shell (Tianjin) Oil and Petrochemical Company Limited 100
NO. 68 XIANIEJIA, DAGANG, ZHENJIANG NEW DISTRICT, ZHENJIANG, 212132
Shell Road Solutions (Zhenjiang) Co. Ltd 100
NO.50 DONGHAI WEST ROAD, SHINAN, DISTRICT, QINGDAO CITY, SHANDONG 
PROVINC, QINGDAO, 266071
Qingdao Shell Oil Co., Ltd. 89
NORTH TO GANG BEI ROAD AND EAST TO HAI GANG ROAD, NANGANG 
INDUSTRIAL ZONE, TIANJIN ECONOMIC-TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT AREA, 
TIANJIN, 300280
Shell (Tianjin) Lubricants Company Limited 100
RM 1503, BUILDING 2, PLAZA OF ZBA, NO. 939 MINHE ROAD, NINGWEI STREET, 
XIAOSHAN, HANGZHOU, ZHEJIANG, 311215
Zhejiang Shell Energy Development Company Limited 100
ROOM 1801, BUILDING 1, INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CENTER, NO. 347, 
JIANGDONG MIDDLE ROAD, JIANYE DISTRICT, NANJING, JIANGSU, 210019
Jiangsu Shell Energy Company Limited 100
ROOM 2407-2409, BUILDING 15, FANGMAOYUAN (PHASE II), NO. 1177 HUANHU 
ROAD, YUELU DISTRICT, CHANGSHA, 410006
Hunan Shell Energy Company Limited 100
ROOM 530, 5TH FLOOR, BUILDING 1, NO. 239 GANG'AO ROAD, CHINA 
(SHANGHAI) FREE TRADE ZONE, SHANGHAI, 200137
Shell Energy (China) Limited 100
ROOM 611,6TH FLOOR, BUILDING B, VITALITY BUSINESS SQUARE, 185 JUMAO STREET, 
XIANGCHENG, SUZHOU, 215100
Suzhou Yiwei NewEnergy Technology Company Limited 100
THE PORT OF ZHAPU, JIAXING MUNICIPALITY, ZHEJIANG, 314201
Zhejiang Shell Oil and Petrochemical Company Limited 100
UNIT 01, 32/F, NO. 16 BUILDING, NO. 1 COURTYARD, JIAN GUO MEN WAI AVENUE, 
CHAOYANG DISTRICT, BEIJING, 100004
Shell (Beijing) Real Estate Consulting Ltd. 100
UNIT 01-08, LEVEL 31, NO. 16 BUILDING, NO. 1 JIAN GUO MEN WAI AVENUE, 
CHAOYANG DISTRICT, BEIJING, 100004
Shell (China) Projects & Technology Limited 100
NO. 60, F7, NO. 1 BUILDING, HEADQUARTER PARK, CAIJIA FREE TRADE ZONE, 
SHENGHE ROAD, BEIBEI DISTRICT, CHONGQING
Chongqing Shell Energy Company Limited 100
NO.4,5,12/F, UNIT A, OCEANWIDE INTERNATIONAL CENTER OFFICE, 249 HUAIHAI 
ROAD, 187 YUNXIA ROAD,CBD, JIANHAN DISTRICT, WUHAN, 430000
Hubei Shell Energy Company Limited 100
FLOOR 23 CHINA LIFE INSURANCE ANHUI FINANCIAL CENTER, LUZHOU AVENUE, 
BAOBINHU NEW AREA, HEFEI CITY, ANHUI PROVINCE, HEFEI, 230000
Anhui Shell Energy Company Limited 100
SHENZHEN,GUANGDONG, SHENZHEN, 518118
Shenzhen BYD Electric Vehicle Investment Company Limited 80
RUNXIANG BUSINESS CENTER A707D, ZHELU STREET, JINGHU DISTRICT, WUHU, 
241000
Wuhu Shell Energy Company Limited 100
UNIT 1502, BUILDING A, ZHONGCHU PLAZA, XINHUA DISTRICT, SHIJIAZHUANG, 
050051
Hebei Shell Oil Sales Co., Ltd 89
51, 27TH FLOOR, BLOCK A, SHANDONG CHAMBER OF COMMERCE BUILDING, 
WEIER ROAD, SHIZHONG DISTRICT, SHANDONG PROVINCE, JINAN, 250001
Shandong Shell Oil Co., Ltd. 89
FLOOR 3, NO.3, XICHA ROAD, SHIJING STREET, BAIYUN DISTRICT, GUANGZHOU, 
510000
GUANGZHOU YADI NEW ENERGY CO., LTD 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
369 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
369
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

CHINA continued
NO.723, BUILDING A1, CHUANGGU INDUSTRIAL ZONE, NO.568 QUEYUAN ROAD, 
TIANXIN DISTRICT, CHANGSHA, 410000
CHANGSHA YADI NEW ENERGY CO., LTD 100
186, NO.1, FLOOR 16, DONGHUA BUILDING, NO.5, DONGCHENG E. ROAD, 
GANGBEI COMMUNITY, DONGCHE NG SUB-D, DONGGUAN, 523000
DONGGUAN YADI CHARGING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD 100
NO.3, LINGNAN ROAD, EAST SUBURBAN AREA, ZHENJIANG DISTRICT, 
SHAOGUAN, 512023
SHAOGUAN YADI CHARGING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD 100
LONGSHAN 7TH ROAD, DAYAWAN WEST ZONE, HUIZHOU, 516083
HUIZHOU YADI CHARGING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD 100
OFFICE BUILDING, NO.2, YADI ROAD, XILIU JIEBAN XINXING INDUSTRIAL PARK, 
HIGH-TEC H ZONE, XIAN, 710000
XI'AN YADI CHARGING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD 100
COLOMBIA
CALLE 90 NO. 19 - 41, OFICINA 702- EDIFICIO QUANTUM, BOGOTÁ, 452
Shell Colombia S.A. 100
Shell Comercializadora Colombia S.A.S. 100
CZECH REPUBLIC
ANTALA STAŠKA 2027/77, PRAGUE, 140 00
Shell Czech Republic a.s. 100
DENMARK
C/O BJØRNHOLM LAW, STRANDVEJEN 60, COPENHAGEN, HELLERUP, 2900
Shell EP Holdingselskab Danmark ApS 100
EGYPT
BUSINESS VIEW BUILDING, NO. 79, 90 STREET (SOUTH), FIFTH SETTLEMENT- NEW 
CAIRO, CAIRO, 11835
Shell Egypt Trading 100
Shell Lubricants Egypt 100
EL SALVADOR
BLVDLOS PROCERES FRENTEA REPARTO, LOS HEROES, E/S SHELL MONUMENTAL, 
SAN SALVADOR, SV
Shell Química de El Salvador S.A. 100
FINLAND
TEKNOBULEVARDI 3-5, VANTAA, 01530
Shell Aviation Finland Oy 100
FRANCE
10 PLACE DE CATALOGNE, PARIS, 75014
Airefsol Energies 67
Airefsol Energies 2 67
Airefsol Energies 8 67
Airefsol Energies 9 67
Centrale Photovoltaïque Bouches-du-Rhône 1 100
Centrale Photovoltaïque Haute-Vienne 1 100
Centrale Photovoltaïque Landes 1 100
Centrale Photovoltaïque Var 1 100
Eolfi SAS 100
Ferme Eolienne Flottante Stenella Rhône 100
Parc Eolien Aisne 1 100
Parc Eolien Corrèze 1 100
Parc Eolien Côtes Armor 1 100
Parc Eolien de la Vrine 100
Parc Eolien De Mervent 100
Parc Eolien Haute-Saône 1 100
Parc Eolien HM1 100
Parc Eolien Jura 1 100
Parc Eolien Marne 1 100
Parc Eolien Oise 1 100
Parc Eolien Oise 2 100
Parc Eolien Somme 1 100
Parc Eolien Somme 2 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Parc Eolien Yonne 1 100
Parc Eolien Yonne 2 100
75 AVENUE PARMENTIER, PARIS, 75544
Centrales Next S.A.S 100
TOUR PACIFIC, 11/13 COURS VALMY - LA DÉFENSE, PUTEAUX, 92800
Avitair SAS 100
Shell EV Charging Solutions France SAS 100
Shell France SAS 100
Shell Retraites SAS 100
Société de Gestion Mobilière et Immobilière SAS 100
GERMANY
AM HAUPTTOR, BAU 8322, LEUNA, 06237
CRI Deutschland GmbH 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Leuna GmbH 100
AM RIEDBACH 1, WILDPOLDSRIED, 87499
Sonnen eServices Deutschland GmbH 100
Sonnen eServices GmbH 100
Sonnen GmbH 100
Sonnen Holding GmbH 100
AUF DEM SCHOLLBRUCH 24-26, GELSENKIRCHEN, 45899
Rheinland Kraftstoff GmbH 100
EUREF-CAMPUS 7-8, BERLIN, 10829
Ubimeter GmbH 100
Ubitricity Gesellschaft für verteilte Energiesysteme mbH 100
HOHE-SCHAAR-STRAßE 36, HAMBURG, 21107
Shell Global Solutions (Deutschland) GmbH 100
HÜNXER STRAßE 149, DINSLAKEN, 46537
SBRS GmbH 100
LICHTSTRAßE 43G, KOELN, 50825
Next Kraftwerke GmbH 100
ST.-LEONHARD-STRAßE 26, BALZHAUSEN, 86483
Energeticum Energiesysteme GmbH 100
SUHRENKAMP 71 - 77, HAMBURG, 22335
Carissa Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH 100
Deutsche Shell Holding GmbH 100
Deutsche Shell Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH 100
euroShell Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG 100
euroShell Deutschland Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH 100
Shell Deutschland Additive GmbH 100
Shell Deutschland GmbH 100
Shell Deutschland Wasserstoff GmbH 100
Shell Energy Deutschland GmbH 100
Shell Energy Retail GmbH 100
Shell Erdgas Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH 100
Shell Erdgas Marketing GmbH & Co. KG 67
Shell Erdoel und Erdgas Exploration GmbH 100
Shell Exploration and Development Libya GmbH I 100
Shell Exploration and Production Colombia GmbH 100
Shell Exploration and Production Libya GmbH 100
Shell Exploration et Production du Maroc GmbH 100
Shell Exploration New Ventures One GmbH 100
Shell Hydrogen Deutschland GmbH 100
Shell Tunisia Offshore GmbH 100
Shell Verwaltungsgesellschaft für Erdgasbeteiligungen mbH 100
SPNV Deutschland Beteiligungsges. mbH 100
WATTSTRAßE 11, BERLIN, 13355
Shell EV Charging Solutions Germany GmbH 100
WILLINGHUSENER WEG 5 D-E, OSTSTEINBEK, 22113
Carissa Einzelhandel- und Tankstellenservice GmbH & Co. KG 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
370 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
370
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

GERMANY continued
EINSTEINSTR. 47, VAIHINGEN, 71665
Enersol GmbH 100
GHANA
8TH FLOOR, ONE AIRPORT SQUARE, AIRPORT BYPASS ROAD, AIRPORT, ACCRA, 
GL-126-6169
Shell Energy Ghana Limited 100
GUAM
643 CHALAN SAN ANTONIO, SUITE 100, TAMUNING, GU 96911
Shell Guam Inc. 100
HONG KONG
35/F AIA KOWLOON TOWER, LANDMARK EAST, 100 HOW MING STREET, KWUN 
TONG, KOWLOON
Fulmart Limited 100
Ocean Century Tf Limited [f] 100
Shell Developments (HK) Limited [f] 100
Shell Hong Kong Limited 100
Shell Korea Limited 100
Shell Macau Limited 100
HUNGARY
BOCSKAI ÚT 134-146., BUDAPEST, 1113
Shell Hungary Trading close Company Limited by shares 100
INDIA
2ND FLOOR, CAMPUS 4A, RMZ MILLENIA BUSINESS PARK II, 143 DR MGR ROAD, 
KANDHANCHAVADY, PERUNGUDI, CHENNAI, TN 600096
Shell Energy Marketing and Trading India Private Limited 100
Shell India Markets Private Limited 100
3-C WORLD TRADE TOWER, NEW BARAKHAMBA LANE, NEW DELHI, 110001
BG LNG Regas India Private Limited 100
7, BANGALORE HARDWARE PARK, DEVANAHALLI INDUSTRIAL PARK, MAHADEVA-
KODIGEHALLI, BANGALORE, 562149
Shell Pahal Social Welfare Association 100
8-2-293/82/A/732 SASI ICON, ROAD NO.36, JUBILEE HILLS, HYDERABAD, 
TELANGANA, 500033
Machine Max India Private Limited 100
OFFICE NO 2008, WESTGATE - D BLOCK, NR YMCA CLUB, S.G.HIGHWAY, 
MAKARBA, AHMEDABAD, GUJARAT, 380051
Hazira Port Private Limited 100
Shell Energy India Private Limited 100
PLATINA TOWER MG ROAD, NEAR SIKANDARPUR METRO STATION, SECTION, 
HARYANA, GURUGRAM, 122001
Greenlots Technology India LLP 100
UNIT NO FF, FIRST FLOOR, OMAXE SQUARE, PLOT NO.14, JASOLA DISTRICT CENTRE, 
NEW DELHI, 110025
Sprng Energy Private Limited 100
301 WORLD TRADE TOWER, BARAKHAMBA LANE, NEW DELHI, 110001
BG India Energy Private Limited 100
BG India Energy Services Private Limited 100
BG India Energy Solutions Private Limited 100
INDONESIA
TALAVERA OFFICE PARK 22-26TH FLOOR, JL. LETJEN. TB SIMATUPANG KAV. 22-26, 
JAKARTA SELATAN, JAKARTA, 12430
PT. Gresik Distribution Terminal 100
PT Shell LNG Indonesia 100
PT. Shell Indonesia 100
PT. Shell Manufacturing Indonesia 100
PT. Shell Solar Indonesia 100
WISMA GKBI, 39TH FLOOR, JL. JENDERAL SUDIRMAN KAV. 28, BENDUNGAN HILIR, 
TANAH ABANG, CENTRAL JAKARTA, 61151
PT EcoOils Jaya Indonesia 90
IRELAND
1ST FLOOR, TEMPLE HALL, TEMPLE ROAD, BLACKROCK, CO. DUBLIN, A94 K3K0
Asiatic Petroleum Company (Dublin) Limited 100
Irish Shell Trust Designated Activity Company 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
ISLE OF MAN
EUROMANX HOUSE, FREEPORT, BALLASALLA, IM9 2AP
Shell Marine Personnel (I.O.M.) Limited 100
Shell Ship Management Limited 100
FIRST NAMES HOUSE, VICTORIA ROAD, DOUGLAS, IM2 4DF
Petrolon Europe Limited 100
Petrolon International Limited 100
ITALY
CONTRADA SAN GIOVANNI IN GOLFO 140, CAMPOBASSO, 86100
Suncore 5 Amaranto 1 S.r.l. 100
GALLERIA VINTLER 17, BOLZANO, 39100
Anagni S.r.l. 100
Barberio S.r.l. 100
Baroni S.r.l. 100
Baroninuovi S.r.l 100
Bonacaro S.r.l. 100
Carlucci S.r.l. 100
Colangelo S.r.l. 100
Depalma S.r.l. 100
Dimassa S.r.l. 100
Mesagne S.r.l. 100
Natuzzi S.r.l. 100
Ottobiano S.r.l. 100
Paliano S.r.l. 100
Ricchiuti S.r.l. 100
Rotello S.r.l. 100
Sanfrancesco S.r.l. 100
Sasso S.r.l. 100
Serracapriola S.r.l. 100
Sicilia S.r.l. 100
Solar-Konzept Italia S.r.l. 100
Teodoro S.r.l. 100
Tuturano S.r.l. 100
Vulci S.r.l. 100
Zamboni S.r.l. 100
GALLERIA VINTLER 17, BOLZANO, 39100 AVV
Guarini S.r.l. 100
PIAZZA SAN SILVESTRO 8, ROME, 00187
Shell International Exploration and Development Italia S.p.A. 100
Shell Italia E&P S.p.A. 100
VIA AUTOSTRADA 32, BERGAMO, 24126
Sonnen eServices Italia S.R.L. 100
Sonnen S.R.L. 100
VIA CLELIA BERTINI ATTILJ 34/D, ROME, 00137
Centrali Next Srl 100
VIA SUSA 40, TORINO, 10138
Shell Fleet Solutions Consorzio 100
VIA TORTONA 25, MILANO, 20144
BG Italia Power S.r.l 100
VIA VITTOR PISANI 16, MILANO, 20124
Alle S.R.L. 100
Aquila S.p.A. 100
Development S.R.L. 100
Marco Polo Solar 2 S.R.L. 100
Marco Polo Solar S.R.L. 100
Ramacca Solar S.R.L 100
Sardinia Solar Energy S.R.L. 100
Shell Energy Italia S.R.L. 100
Shell Italia Holding S.p.A. 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
371 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
371
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

ITALY continued
Shell Italia Oil Products S.R.L. 100
Shell Mobility Italia S.r.l. 100
VIA VITTORIO VENETO, 137, ROVIGO, 45100
Elios Energy S.r.l. 100
VIA GIOVANNI GIOLITTI, TORINO, 10123
MSTS Consorzio [b] 100
JAPAN
12F PACIFIC CENTURY PLACE MARUNOUCHI, 1-11-1, MARUNOUCHI, CHIYODA-KU, 
TOKYO, 100-6212
Shell Lubricants Japan K.K. 100
13F FUKOKU SEIMEI BUILDING, 2-2-2 UCHISAIWAI-CHO, CHIYODA-KU, TOKYO, 
100-0011
K.K. Red and Yellow 100
2-1-13, MOTOAZABU, MINATO-KU, TOKYO, 106-0046
Fukuoka Offshore Wind Power No. 1 K.K 80
4052-2 NAKATSU, AIKAWA-CHO, AIKO-GUN, KANAGAWA, 243-0303
K.K. SVC Tokyo 100
KUWANO BUILDING 2F, SHIBUYA-KU, TOKYO, 23-4JINGUMAE 6-CHOME
Shell Solar Japan G.K. 100
12F PACIFIC CENTURY PLACE MARUNOUCHI, 1-11-1, MARUNOUCHI, CHIYODA-KU, 
TOKYO, 100-6216
Shell Japan Limited 100
Sonnen Japan Kabushiki Kaisha 100
1-11-1 MARUNOUCHI, CHIYODA-KU, TOKYO, 100-0005
Nagaoka Power Generation Limited 100
JERSEY
13 CASTLE STREET, ST HELIER, JE1 1ES
Shell Service Station Properties Limited 100
KENYA
LR 209/4266 KAMPALA ROAD,, P.O. BOX 46644, NAIROBI, 00100
Shell Bitumen East Africa Limited 100
SHELL & BP HOUSE,, HARAMBEE AVENUE, P.O. BOX 43561, NAIROBI, 00100
Shell Chemicals East Africa Limited 100
LUXEMBOURG
7, RUE DE L'INDUSTRIE, BERTRANGE, LUXEMBOURG, L-8005
Shell Luxembourgeoise Sarl 100
7, RUE DE L'INDUSTRIE, BERTRANGE, LUXEMBOURG, L-8069
Shell Finance Luxembourg Sarl 100
MACAO
876 AVENIDA DA AMIZADE, EDIFICIO MARINA GARDENS, ROOM 310, 3RD FLOOR
Shell Macau Petroleum Company Limited 100
MALAYSIA
KENSINGTON GARDENS, NO. U1317, LOT 7616, JALAN JUMIDAR BUYONG, LABUAN 
F.T., 87000
Shell Treasury Malaysia (L) Limited 100
LEVEL 11, 1 SENTRAL, JALAN RAKYAT, KUALA LUMPUR SENTRAL, 50470 KUALA LUMPUR, 
MALAYSIA, KUALA LUMPUR, 50470
Shell Business Service Centre Sdn. Bhd. 100
Shell People Services Asia Sdn. Bhd. 100
LOT 303, JALAN PEKELILING, PASIR GUDANG INDUSTRIAL ESTATE, 81700 PASIR 
GUDANG, JOHOR, 81700
EcoInnovation Sdn. Bhd. 100
LOT NO. 303, JALAN PEKELILING, PASIR GUDANG INDUSTRIAL ESTATE, 81707 PASIR 
GUDANG, JOHOR, 81707
EcoOils (Negeri Sembilan) Sdn. Bhd. 100
SUITE 9D, LEVEL 9, MENARA ANSAR, 65 JALAN TRUS, 80000 JOHOR BAHRU, JOHOR, 
80000
EcoOils Sdn. Bhd. 100
LEVEL 11, MENARA TH 1 SENTRAL, JALAN RAKYAT, KUALA LUMPUR SENTRAL, WILAYAH 
PERSEKUTUAN, KUALA LUMPUR, 50470
Pertini Vista Sdn. Bhd. 100
Provista Ventures Sdn. Bhd. 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Sarawak Shell Berhad 100
Shell Global Solutions (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 100
Shell Malaysia Trading Sendirian Berhad 100
Shell MDS (Malaysia) Sendirian Berhad 72
Shell New Ventures Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. [f] 100
Shell Sabah Selatan Sendirian Berhad 100
Shell Timur Sdn. Bhd. 70
MAURITIUS
33 EDITH CAVELL STREET, PORT LOUIS, 11324
Pennzoil Products International Company 100
6TH FLOOR, TOWER A, 1 CYBERCITY, EBENE, 72201
BG Mauritius LNG Holdings Ltd 100
LES CASCADES EDITH CAVELL STREET, PORT LOUIS
Solenergi Power Private Limited 100
C/O OCORIAN CORPORATE SERVICES LTD, 6TH FLOOR TOWER A, 1 CYBERCITY, 
EBENE
BG Mumbai Holdings Limited 100
MEXICO
AVENIDA PASEO DE LAS PALMAS 340, 1ST FLOOR, COLONIA LOMAS DE 
CHAPULTEPEC, DELEGACIÓN MIGUEL HIDALGO, CIUDAD DE MÉXICO, 11000
Gas Del Litoral, S. de R.L. de C.V. 75
Shell Energy Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 100
Shell Exploracion y Exrtraccion de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 100
Shell México Gas Natural, S. de R.L. de C.V. 100
Shell México, S.A. de C.V. 100
Shell Servicios México, S.A. de C.V. 100
Shell Solutions Mexico S.A. de C.V. 100
Shell Trading México, S. de R.L. de C.V. 100
NETHERLANDS
2E HAVENSTRAAT 5B, IJMUIDEN, 1976 CE
Noordzeewind C.V. [c] 100
CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 16, THE HAGUE, 2596 HR
Shell International Exploration and Production B.V. 100
CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 30, DEN HAAG, 2596 HP
Solar-EW II B.V. 100
CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 30, THE HAGUE, 2596 HR
Attiki Gas B.V. 100
B.V. Dordtsche Petroleum Maatschappij 100
B.V. Petroleum Assurantie Maatschappij 100
BG Gas Brazil E&P 12 B.V. 100
BG Gas Brazil Holdings B.V. 100
BG GAS INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS BV 100
BG Gas Netherlands Holdings B.V. 100
BG Gas Sao Paulo Investments B.V. 100
BJSA Exploration and Production B.V. 100
Chosun Shell B.V. 100
Energiepark Pottendijk B.V. 100
HKN LP 1 B.V. 100
HKN LP 2 B.V. 100
HKN LP 3 B.V. 100
HKN LP 4 B.V. 100
HKN LP 5 B.V. 100
HKN LP 6 B.V. 100
Integral Investments B.V. 100
Jordan Oil Shale Company B.V. 100
KE STP Company B.V. 100
KE Suriname B.V. 100
LNG Shipping Operation Services Netherlands B.V. 100
Netherlands Alng Holding Company B.V. 100
Portfolio Holdings B.V. 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
372 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
372
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

NETHERLANDS continued
Pottendijk Energie B.V. 100
Pottendijk Wind B.V. 100
Pottendijk Zon B.V. 100
POWER LINE UTILISING GRID B.V. 100
Raffinaderij Shell Mersin N.V. 100
RESCO B.V. 100
Rotterdam Hydrogen Company B.V. 100
Shell Abu Dhabi B.V. 100
Shell Additives Holdings (I) B.V. 100
Shell Additives Holdings (II) B.V. 100
Shell Albania Block 4 B.V. 100
Shell Brazil Holding B.V. 100
Shell Business Development Central Asia B.V. 100
Shell Caspian B.V. 100
Shell Caspian Pipeline Holdings B.V. 100
Shell China B.V. 100
Shell China Holdings B.V. 100
Shell Deepwater Borneo B.V. 100
Shell Deepwater Tanzania B.V. 100
Shell Development Iran B.V. 100
Shell E and P Offshore Services B.V. 100
Shell Egypt N.V. [d] 100
Shell Energy Europe B.V. 100
Shell EP Holdings (EE&ME) B.V. 100
Shell EP Middle East Holdings B.V. 100
Shell EP Oman B.V. 100
Shell EP Russia Investments (III) B.V. 100
Shell EP Russia Investments (V) B.V. 100
Shell EP Somalia B.V. 100
Shell EP Wells Equipment Services B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (100) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (101) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (102) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (103) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (107) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (82) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (84) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (89) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (92) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (93) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (94) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (96) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (99) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LI) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LVIII) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LXI) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LXII) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LXV) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LXVI) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LXXI) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production (LXXV) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production Brunei B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production Holdings B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production Investments B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production Mauritania (C10) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production Mauritania (C19) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production Services (RF) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production South Africa B.V. 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Shell Exploration and Production Ukraine Investments (I) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production Ukraine Investments (II) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration and Production West-Siberia B.V. 100
Shell Exploration B.V. 100
Shell Exploration Company (RF) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration Company (West) B.V. 100
Shell Exploration Company B.V. 100
Shell Exploration Venture Services B.V. 100
Shell Finance (Netherlands) B.V. 100
Shell Gas & Power Developments B.V. 100
Shell Gas (LPG) Holdings B.V. 100
Shell Gas B.V. 100
Shell Gas Iraq B.V. 100
Shell Gas Nigeria B.V. 100
Shell Gas Venezuela B.V. 100
Shell Generating (Holding) B.V. 100
Shell Geothermal B.V. 100
Shell Global Solutions (Eastern Europe) B.V. 100
Shell Global Solutions International B.V. 100
Shell Global Solutions Services B.V. 100
Shell HKW-A LP 1 B.V. 100
Shell HKW-A LP 2 B.V. 100
Shell HKW-A LP 3 B.V. 100
Shell HKW-A LP 4 B.V. 100
Shell HKW-A LP 5 B.V. 100
Shell HKW-A LP 6 B.V. 100
Shell HKW-A LP 7 B.V. 100
Shell HKW-B B.V. 100
Shell HKW-B LP 1 B.V. 100
Shell HKW-B LP 2 B.V. 100
Shell HKW-B LP 3 B.V. 100
Shell HKW-B LP 4 B.V. 100
Shell HKW-B LP 5 B.V. 100
Shell HKW-B LP 6 B.V. 100
Shell HKW-B LP 7 B.V. 100
Shell Hydrogen Operations & Production BV 100
Shell Information Technology International B.V. 100
Shell Integrated Gas Oman B.V. 100
Shell International B.V. 100
Shell International Finance B.V.* 100
Shell Internationale Research Maatschappij B.V. 100
Shell Internet Ventures B.V. 100
Shell Iraq Petroleum Development B.V. 100
Shell Iraq Services B.V. 100
Shell Kazakhstan B.V. 100
Shell Kazakhstan Development B.V. 100
Shell Kuwait Exploration and Production B.V. 100
Shell LNG Bunkering B.V. 100
Shell LNG Port Spain B.V. 100
Shell Low Carbon Fuels B.V. 100
Shell Manufacturing Services B.V. 100
Shell Mozambique B.V. 100
Shell Namibia Upstream B.V. 100
Shell Nanhai B.V. 100
Shell Nederland B.V. 100
Shell Netherlands Canada Financing B.V. 100
Shell New Energies Holding Europe B.V. 100
Shell New Energies NL B.V. 100
Shell Offshore (Personnel) Services B.V. 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
373 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
373
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

NETHERLANDS continued
Shell Offshore Services B.V. 100
Shell Offshore Upstream South Africa B.V. 100
Shell OKLNG Holdings B.V. 100
Shell Olie OG Gas Holding B.V. [h] 100
Shell Oman Exploration and Production B.V. 100
Shell Overseas Holdings (Oman) B.V. 100
Shell Overseas Investments B.V. 100
Shell Petroleum N.V.* 100
Shell Project Development (VIII) B.V. 100
Shell RDS Holding B.V. 100
Shell Renewables and Energy Solutions Europe B.V. 100
Shell Sakhalin Holdings B.V. 100
Shell Sakhalin Services B.V. 100
Shell Salym Development B.V. 100
Shell Sao Tome and Principe B.V. 100
Shell Services Oman B.V. 100
Shell Shared Services (Asia) B.V. 100
Shell South Syria Exploration B.V. 100
Shell Trademark Management B.V. 100
Shell Trading Russia B.V. 100
Shell Upstream Albania B.V. 100
Shell Upstream Development B.V. 100
Shell Upstream Indonesia Services B.V. 100
Shell Upstream Turkey B.V. 100
SHELL VENTURES BV 100
Shell Ventures Investments B.V. 100
Shell Western LNG B.V. 100
Shell Windenergy Netherlands B.V. 100
Shell Windenergy NZW I B.V. 100
Solar-EP II B.V. 100
Syria Shell Petroleum Development B.V. [g] 65
The Green Near Future 5 B.V. 100
Solar-EP I B.V. 100
CHEMIEWEG 25, P.O. BOX 6060, MOERDIJK, 4780 LN
Shell Nederland Chemie B.V. [f] 100
GRAAF ENGELBERTLAAN 75, BREDA, 4837DS
Next Kraftwerke Benelux B.V. 100
HERIKERBERGWEG 28, AMSTERDAM, 1101
STICHTING FOR THE HOLDING AND ADMIN OF SHARES UNDER THE RDS 
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS 100
RIGAKADE 20, AMSTERDAM, 1013 BC
Shell EV Charging Solutions B.V. 100
VOLMERLAAN 5, RIJSWIJK, 2288 GC
MS Europe B.V. 100
VONDELINGENWEG 601, VONDELINGENPLAAT, ROTTERDAM, 3196 KK
Shell MSPO 2 Holding B.V. 100
Shell Nederland Raffinaderij B.V. 100
VOORSTRAAT 67, GROOT-AMMERS, 2964AJ
PTC Kampen B.V. 80
WEENA 505, ROTTERDAM, 3013 AL
B.R.E. B.V. 100
Euroshell Cards B.V. 100
Shell Chemicals Europe B.V. 100
Shell Downstream Services International B.V. 100
Shell Energy Retail B.V. 100
Shell Lubricants Supply Company B.V. 100
Shell Nederland Verkoopmaatschappij B.V. 100
Shell TapUp B.V. 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Shell Trading Rotterdam B.V. 100
Snijders Olie B.V. 100
Tankstation Exploitatie Maatschappij Holding B.V. 100
Waalbrug Exploitatie Maatschappij B.V. 100
CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 30, GRAVENHAGE, 2596 HR
Noordzeewind B.V. 100
NEW ZEALAND
C/O BAKER TILLY STAPLES RODWAY TARANAKI LIMITED, 109-113 POWDERHAM 
STREET, P.O. BOX 146, NEW PLYMOUTH, TARANAKI, 4340
Energy Finance NZ Limited 100
Energy Holdings Offshore Limited 100
Shell (Petroleum Mining) Company Limited 100
Shell Energy Asia Limited 100
Shell Investments NZ Limited 100
Southern Petroleum No Liability 100
MERCER (N.Z.) LIMITED, FLOOR 2, 20 CUSTOMHOUSE QUAY, WELLINGTON, 6011
Shell New Zealand Pensions Limited 100
NIGERIA
FREEMAN HOUSE, 21/22 MARINA, P.M.B. 2418, LAGOS
Delta Business Development Limited 100
Shell Exploration and Production Africa Limited 100
Shell Nigeria Business Operations Limited 100
Shell Nigeria Closed Pension Fund Administrator Ltd 100
Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company Ltd 100
Shell Nigeria Exploration Properties Charlie Limited 100
Shell Nigeria Gas Ltd (SNG) 100
Shell Nigeria Infrastructure Development Limited 100
SHELL NIGERIA SUPPORT SERVICES LTD 100
Shell Nigeria Oil Products Limited (SNOP) 100
Shell Nigeria Ultra Deep Limited 100
Shell Nigeria Upstream Ventures Limited 100
Shell Thrift & Loan Fund Trustees Nig Ltd 99
SHELL INDUSTRIAL AREA, P.O. BOX 263, RIVERS STATE, PORT HARCOURT, 500272
The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited 100
FREEMAN HOUSE, 21/22 MARINA, LAGOS
All on Partnerships for Energy Access Limited by Guarantee 100
BG Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited 100
BG Upstream A Nigeria Limited 100
NORWAY
TANKVEGEN 1, TANANGER, 4056
A/S Norske Shell 100
OMAN
BAIT SALAM, SALAM SQUARE, P.O. BOX 74, MUSCAT, P.C. 116
Shell Development Oman LLC 100
P.O. BOX 38, MINA AL FAHAL, MUSCAT, 116
Shell Oman Marketing Company SAOG 49
P.O. BOX 398, SOHAR FREE ZONE, NORTH AL BATINAH GOVERNORATE, SOHAR, 
322
Sohar Solar Qabas (FZC) LLC 100
PAKISTAN
SHELL HOUSE, 6 CH. KHALIQUZZAMAN ROAD, KARACHI, 75530
Shell Energy Pakistan (Private) Limited 100
Shell Pakistan Limited 77
PERU
CALLE DEAN VALDIVIA 111, OFICINA 802, SAN ISIDRO, LIMA, LIMA 27
Shell GNL Peru S.A.C. 100
Shell Operaciones Peru S.A.C. 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
374 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
374
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

PHILIPPINES
41ST FLOOR, THE FINANCE CENTER, 26TH STREET CORNER 9TH AVENUE, 
BONIFACIO GLOBAL CITY, TAGUIG, METRO MANILA, 1635
Pilipinas Shell Petroleum Corporation 55
Shell Chemicals Philippines, Inc. 100
Shell Energy Philippines Inc 100
Shell Gas and Energy Philippines Corporation 100
Shell Solar Philippines Corporation 100
SUBIC BAY FREE PORT ZONE, OLANGAPO CITY, 2200
Shell Gas Trading (Asia Pacific), Inc. 100
POLAND
ASTORIA, PRZESKOK 2, WARSAW, 00-032
Next Kraftwerke Sp. z o.o. 100
BITWY WARSZAWSKIEJ 1920 ROKU 7A, WARSAW, 02-366
Amber Baltic Wind 1 Sp z o.o. 100
Amber Baltic Wind 10 Sp z o.o. 100
Amber Baltic Wind 11 Sp z o.o. 100
Amber Baltic Wind 2 Sp z o.o. 100
Amber Baltic Wind 3 Sp z o.o. 100
Amber Baltic Wind 4 Sp z o.o. 100
Amber Baltic Wind 5 Sp z o.o. 100
Amber Baltic Wind 6 Sp z o.o. 100
Amber Baltic Wind 7 Sp z o.o. 100
Amber Baltic Wind 8 Sp z o.o. 100
Amber Baltic Wind 9 Sp z o.o. 100
UL. BITWY WARSZAWSKIEJ 1920 R. NR 7A, WARSAW, 02-366
Shell Polska Sp. z o.o. 100
UL. PAWIA 21, KRAKOW, 31-154
Shell Energy Retail Poland Sp. z o.o. 100
UL. BITWY WARSZAWSKIEJ 1920R. 7A, WARSAW, 02-366
Shell Mobility Polska Sp. z o.o. 100
PUERTO RICO
P.O. BOX 186, YABUCOA, PR 00767-0186
Station Managers of Puerto Rico, Inc. 100
QATAR
QATAR SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY PARK TECH1, OFFICE 101, P.O. BOX 3747, DOHA
Qatar Shell Research & Technology Centre QSTP-LLC 100
TOWER 121, 6TH FLOOR, ZONE NO.66, STREET NO.100, BUILDING.121, DOHA, P.O. 
BOX 3747
Qatar Shell Service Company W.L.L. 100
ROMANIA
ING. GEORGE CONSTANTINESCU STREET, NO. 4B AND 2-4, BUILDING A, FLOOR 7, 
OFFICE 727, DISTRICT 2, BUCHAREST, 20337
Shell Romania S.R.L. 100
RUSSIA
9 LESNAYA STREET, FLOOR 4, MOSCOW, 125196
Limited Liability Company "Shell Neftegaz Development (V)" 100
LLC Shell NefteGaz Development 100
Syriaga Neftegaz Development LLC 100
SAINT KITTS AND NEVIS
MORNING STAR HOLDINGS LIMITED, MAIN STREET, SUITE 556, CHARLESTOWN
Shell Oil & Gas (Malaysia) LLC 90
SAINT LUCIA
MERCURY COURT, CHOC ESTATE, CASTRIES
BG Atlantic 2/3 Holdings Limited 100
SAUDI ARABIA
P.O. BOX 16996, RIYADH, 11474
Shell Global Solutions Saudi Arabia LLC 100
SINGAPORE
1 COMMONWEALTH LANE, #09-30, ONE COMMONWEALTH, SINGAPORE, 149544
Zeco Systems Pte. Ltd. 99
Company by country and address of incorporation %
54 CHULIA STREET, 49-01 OCBC CENTRE, OCBC CENTRE, 04951
EcoOils Limited 100
THE METROPOLIS TOWER 1, 9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, #07-01, SINGAPORE, 
138588
BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte. Limited 100
BG Exploration & Production Myanmar Pte. Ltd. 100
BG Myanmar Pte. Ltd. 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Pte. Ltd. 100
Shell Chemicals Seraya Pte. Ltd. 100
Shell Eastern Petroleum (Pte) Ltd [f] 100
Shell Eastern Trading (Pte) Ltd [f] 100
Shell Gas Marketing Pte. Ltd. 100
Shell Integrated Gas Thailand Pte.Limited 100
Shell International Shipping Services (Pte) Ltd 100
Shell Myanmar Energy Pte. Ltd. 100
Shell Pulau Moa Pte Ltd 100
Shell Tankers (Singapore) Private Limited 100
Shell Treasury Centre East (Pte) Ltd 100
8 MARINA VIEW, #11-03, ASIA SQUARE TOWER 1, SINGAPORE, 18960
BG Asia Pacific Services Pte. Ltd. 100
10 COLLYER QUAY, #10-01, OCEAN FINANCIAL CENTRE, SINGAPORE, 49315
BG INSURANCE COMPANY (SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD. 100
SLOVAKIA
EINSTEINOVA 23, BRATISLAVA, 851 01
SHELL Slovakia s.r.o. 100
SLOVENIA
BRAVNICARJEVA ULICA 13, LJUBLJANA, 1000
Shell Adria d.o.o. 100
SOUTH AFRICA
10 RUA VASCO DE GAMA, FORESHORE, CAPE TOWN, 8000
Shell Global Customer Services Centre Cape Town (Pty) Ltd 100
TWICKENHAM, THE CAMPUS, 57 SLOAN STREET, EPSOM DOWNS, BRYANSTON, 
2021
Shell Downstream South Africa (Pty) Ltd 72
Shell South Africa Energy (Pty) Ltd 100
Shell South Africa Exploration (Pty) Limited 100
Shell South Africa Holdings (Pty) Ltd 100
STISA (Pty) Limited 72
SOUTH KOREA
7FL., CHONGKUNDANG BUILDING, 8, CHOONGJEONG-RO, SEOUL, 3742
Shell Renewables Korea Co., Ltd. 100
NO. 250, SINSUN-RO, NAM-GU, BUSAN, 48561
Hankook Shell Oil Company 54
UNIT 210, 164, JANGCHUN-RO, JUNG-GU, ULSAN, 44530
MunmuBaram Co.,Ltd. 80
SPAIN
PASEO DE LA CASTELLANA, 257-6º, MADRID, 28046
BG ENERGY IBERIAN HOLDINGS S.L. 100
Shell España, S.A. 100
Shell Spain LNG, S.A.U. 100
C/ CLAUDIO GUERIN, SEVILLA, 41005
EXAENERGIA S.L.U. 100
AVENIDA DE GIRONA 2, GIRONA, OLOT, 17800
SONNEN IBÉRICA, S.L. 100
2 FLOOR 18 TORRE SEVILLA, PLAZA ALCALDE SANCHEZ MONTESEIRIN, SEVILLA, 41092
Shell Desarrollo 5, S.L. 100
Shell Desarrollo 7, S.L. 100
Shell Desarrollo 10 S.L. 100
Shell Desarrollo 11 S.L. 100
Shell Desarrollo 12 S.L. 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
375 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
375
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

SPAIN continued
Shell Desarrollo 14 S.L. 100
Shell Desarrollo 1 S.L. 100
Shell Desarrollo 2 S.L. 100
Shell Desarrollo 3 S.L. 100
Shell Desarrollo 4 S.L. 100
SWEDEN
DELOITTE, P.O. BOX 450, ÖSTERSUND, 831 26
BG International Services AB 100
VASAGATAN 28, STOCKHOLM, 111 20
Shell Aviation Sweden AB 100
SWITZERLAND
BAARERMATTE, BAAR, 6340
Shell (Switzerland) AG 100
Shell Brands International AG 100
Shell Holdings Switzerland AG 100
Shell Trading Switzerland AG 100
Solen Versicherungen AG 100
BAHNHOFSTR. 10, ZURICH, 8001
Suisse Next GmbH 100
STEIGERHUBELSTRASSE 8, BERN, 3008
Shell Lubricants Switzerland AG 100
TAIWAN
INTERNATIONAL TRADE BUILDING, ROOM 2001, 20TH FLOOR, 333, KEELUNG ROAD 
SECTION 1, TAIPEI, 110
Shell Taiwan Limited 100
TANZANIA
1ST FLOOR KILWA HOUSE, PLOT 369, TOURE DRIVE, OYSTER BAY, P.O. BOX 105833, 
DAR ES SALAAM
Shell Tanzania Limited 100
Tanzania LNG Limited 100
THAILAND
10 SOONTHORNKOSA ROAD, KLONGTOEY, BANGKOK, 10110
Pattanadhorn Company Limited 42
Sahapanichkijphun Company Limited 42
Shell Global Solutions (Thailand) Limited 100
Shell Global Solutions Holdings (Thailand) Limited 100
Shell Global Solutions Service (Thailand) Company Limited 100
Unitas Company Limited 42
90 CYBERWORLD TOWER A, ROOM A 2401, 24TH FLOOR, RATCHADAPISEK ROAD 
KWAENG HUAYKWANG, KHET HUAY KWANG, BANGKOK, 10110
Thai Energy Company Limited 100
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
5 SAINT CLAIR AVENUE, SAINT CLAIR, PORT OF SPAIN
Shell Gas Supply Trinidad Limited 100
Shell LNG T&T Ltd 100
Shell Manatee Limited 100
Shell T&T Investments Limited 100
Shell Trinidad Central Block Limited 100
Shell Trinidad North Coast Limited 100
TRINLING Limited 100
SHELL ENERGY HOUSE, 5 ST. CLAIR AVENUE, PORT OF SPAIN
Shell Trinidad Ltd 100
AVENIDA BRIGADEIRO FARIA LIMA, PORT OF SPAIN, TRINIDAD
SHELL RENEWABLES CARIBBEAN LIMITED 100
TUNISIA
IMMEUBLE LE TANIT DU LAC, RUE DU LAC WINDERMERE, LES BERGES DU LAC, TUNIS, 
1053
Shell Tunisia LPG S.A. 100
Tunisian Processing S.A. 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
TURKEY
GULBAHAR MAH.SALIH TOZAN SOK., KARAMANCILAR IS MERKEZI B BLOK NO:18, 
ESENTEPE, SISLI, ISTANBUL, 34394
Shell & Turcas Petrol A.S. 70
Shell Enerji A.S. 100
Shell Petrol A.S. 70
UK
1 ALTENS FARM ROAD, NIGG, ABERDEEN, AB12 3FY
Shell Trustee Solutions Limited 100
10 FLEET PLACE, LONDON, EC4M 7QS
Meteor Lead Limited 100
10 FLEET PLACE, LONDON, EC4M 7RB
BG Global Employee Resources Limited 100
15 CANADA SQUARE, LONDON, E14 5GL
Enterprise Oil Operations Limited 100
16 GREAT QUEEN STREET, COVENT GARDEN, LONDON, WC2B 5AH
Ubitricity Distributed Energy Systems UK Limited 100
3 WATERHOUSE SQUARE, 138 - 142 HOLBORN, LONDON, EC1N 2SW
Shell EV Charging Solutions UK Limited 100
30 FINSBURY SQUARE, LONDON, EC2A 1AG
BG Employee Shares Trustees Limited 100
BG Group Employee Shares Trustees Limited 100
BG Netherlands 100
BG Norge Limited 100
BG Overseas Investments Limited 100
Shell Chemicals (Hellas) Limited 100
7 EXCHANGE CRESCENT, CONFERENCE SQUARE, EDINBURGH, EH3 8AN
BG General Partner Limited 100
CANTERBURY COURT, KENNINGTON PARK, 1-3 BRIXTON ROAD, LONDON, SW9 
6DE
Limejump Intermediate 1 Limited 100
Limejump Ltd 100
Limejump Virtual 1 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 10 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 11 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 12 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 13 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 14 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 15 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 2 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 3 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 4 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 5 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 6 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 7 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 8 Limited 100
Limejump Virtual 9 Limited 100
SHELL CENTRE, LONDON, SE1 7NA
BG CENTRAL HOLDINGS LIMITED 100
BG Cyprus Limited 100
BG Delta Limited 100
BG Energy Capital Plc 100
BG Energy Holdings Limited 100
BG Energy Marketing Limited 100
BG Equatorial Guinea Limited 100
BG Gas Services Limited 100
BG General Holdings Limited 100
BG Great Britain Limited 100
BG GROUP LIMITED 100
BG Group Pension Trustees Limited 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
376 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
376
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

UK continued
BG Group Trustees Limited 100
BG Intellectual Property Limited 100
BG International Limited 100
BG Karachaganak Limited 100
BG Kenya L10A Limited 100
BG Kenya L10B Limited 100
BG LNG Investments Limited 100
BG Mongolia Holdings Limited 100
BG Netherlands Financing Unlimited 100
BG North Sea Holdings Limited 100
BG OKLNG Limited 100
BG Overseas Holdings Limited 100
BG Overseas Limited 100
BG Rosetta Limited 100
BG South East Asia Limited 100
BG Subsea Well Project Limited 100
BG Tanzania Holdings Limited 100
BG Trinidad LNG Limited 100
BG UK Holdings Limited 100
Brazil Shipping I Limited 100
B-Snug Limited 100
CRI Catalyst Company Europe Limited 100
Derivatives Trading Atlantic Limited 100
Enterprise Oil Limited 100
Enterprise Oil Middle East Limited 100
Enterprise Oil Norge Limited 100
Enterprise Oil U.K. Limited 100
Gainrace Limited 100
Glossop Limited 100
GOGB Limited 100
Machine Max Limited 100
Methane Services Limited 100
Murphy Schiehallion Limited 100
Private Oil Holdings Oman Limited 85
Sabah Shell Petroleum Company Limited 100
Saxon Oil Limited 100
Saxon Oil Miller Limited 100
SELAP LIMITED 100
SHELL AIRCRAFT LIMITED 100
Shell Aviation Limited 100
Shell Business Development Middle East Limited 100
Shell Caribbean Investments Limited 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Limited 100
Shell Chemical Company of Eastern Africa Limited 100
Shell Chemicals Limited 100
Shell Chemicals U.K. Limited 100
Shell China Exploration and Production Company Limited 100
Shell Clair UK Limited 100
Shell Club Corringham Limited 100
SHELL COMPANY (HELLAS) LIMITED 100
Shell Company (Pacific Islands) Limited 100
Shell Corporate Director Limited 100
Shell Corporate Secretary Limited 100
Shell Distributor (Holdings) Limited 100
Shell Employee Benefits Trustee Limited 100
Shell Energy Europe Limited 100
Shell Energy Investments Limited 100
SHELL ENERGY SUPPLY UK LTD 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Shell EP Offshore Ventures Limited 100
Shell Exploration and Production Tanzania Limited 100
Shell Finance GB Limited 100
Shell Gas Holdings (Malaysia) Limited 100
Shell Gas Marketing U.K Limited 100
Shell Global LNG Limited 100
Shell Hasdrubal Limited 100
Shell Holdings (U.K.) Limited 100
Shell Information Technology International Limited 100
Shell International Gas Limited 100
Shell International Limited 100
Shell International Petroleum Company Limited 100
Shell International Trading and Shipping Company Limited 100
Shell Malaysia Limited 100
Shell Marine Products Limited 100
Shell New Energies Holding Limited 100
Shell New Energies UK Ltd 100
Shell Overseas Holdings Limited 100
Shell Overseas Services Limited 100
Shell Pension Reserve Company (SIPF) Limited 100
Shell Pension Reserve Company (SOCPF) Limited 100
Shell Pension Reserve Company (UK) Limited 100
Shell Pensions Trust Limited 100
Shell Property Company Limited 100
Shell QGC Holdings Limited [f] 100
Shell QGC Midstream 1 Limited [f] 100
Shell QGC Midstream 2 Limited 100
Shell QGC Upstream 1 Limited 100
Shell QGC Upstream 2 Limited 100
Shell Research Limited 100
Shell Response Limited 100
Shell South Asia LNG Limited 100
Shell Supplementary Pension Plan Trustees Limited 100
Shell Tankers (U.K.) Limited 100
Shell Trading International Limited 100
Shell Treasury Centre Limited 100
Shell Treasury Dollar Company Limited 100
Shell Treasury Euro Company Limited 100
Shell Treasury UK Limited 100
Shell Trinidad 5(A) Limited 100
Shell Trinidad and Tobago Limited 100
Shell Trinidad Block E Limited 100
Shell Tunisia Upstream Limited 100
Shell U.K. Limited 100
Shell U.K. North Atlantic Limited 100
Shell U.K. Oil Products Limited 100
Shell Upstream Overseas Services (I) Limited 100
Shell Ventures New Zealand Limited 100
Shell Ventures U.K. Limited 100
STOEL Limited 100
STT (Das Beneficiary) Limited* 100
Synthetic Chemicals (Northern) Limited 100
Telegraph Service Stations Limited 100
The Anglo-Saxon Petroleum Company Limited 100
The Asiatic Petroleum Company Limited 100
The Mexican Eagle Oil Company Limited 100
The Shell Company (W.I.) Limited 100
The Shell Company of Hong Kong Limited 100
The Shell Company of India Limited 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
377 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
377
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

UK continued
The Shell Company of Nigeria Limited 100
The Shell Company of Thailand Limited 100
The Shell Company of The Philippines Limited 75
The Shell Marketing Company of Borneo Limited 100
The Shell Petroleum Company Limited 100
The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited 100
Thermocomfort Limited 100
UK Shell Pension Plan Trust Limited 100
SHELL COMPANY OF TURKEY LIMITED (THE) 100
SHELL CENTRE, YORK ROAD, LONDON, SE1 7NA
Shell Group Limited 100
SHELL ENERGY HOUSE, WESTWOOD BUSINESS PARK, WESTWOOD WAY, 
COVENTRY, CV4 8HS
First Telecommunications Limited 100
First Utility Limited 100
Impello Limited 100
Shell Energy Retail Limited 100
Shell Energy UK Limited 100
UNIT 2.13, CANTERBURY COURT, KENNINGTON PARK, 1-3 BRIXTON ROAD, 
LONDON, SW9 6DE
Limejump Energy Limited 100
8 DEVONSHIRE SQUARE, LONDON, EC2M 4PL
CSE23 Limited 100
Corallian Energy Limited 100
UKRAINE
100 CHERVONOARMIYSKA STR, 8TH FLOOR, KYIV, 03150
Shell Energy Ukraine LLC 100
MYKOLY GRINCHENKA STR, 4B, KIEV, 03038
Shell Oil Products Ukraine [c] 100
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
JAFZA BUILDING #LB10, POBOX 16968, JEBEL ALI FREE ZONE, DUBAI, 0000
Shell International Trading Middle East Limited FZE 100
URUGUAY
LA CUMPARSITA, 1373 4TH FLOOR, MONTEVIDEO, 11200
BG (Uruguay) S.A. 100
USA
1013 CENTRE ROAD, COUNTY OF NEW CASTLE, DELAWARE, WILMINGTON, DE 
19805
Zeco Holdings, Inc. 100
Zeco Systems, Inc. 100
11111 WILCREST GREEN, SUITE 100, HOUSTON, TX 77042
Texas Petroleum Group LLC 100
2048 WEEMS ROAD, BLDG C, TUCKER, GA 30084
Sonnen Inc 100
422 ADMIRAL BLVD, KANSAS CITY, MO 64106
Blackjack Plains Solar Project, LLC 100
Savion Solar Equipment, LLC 100
Sugar Tree Solar Project, LLC 100
Sun Cactus Solar Project, LLC 100
Wild Peach Solar Project, LLC 100
422 ADMIRAL BLVD, KANSAS, MO 64106
ACADIAN SUN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Adams Creek Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
ADMIRAL BLVD LAND GROUP, LLC [b] 100
ANABRANCH ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
ATHENS CREEK ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Austin Parkway Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Bankson Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
BELL BRANCH SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [b] 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Between The Rows, LLC [b] 100
Black Hawk Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
BLACKS CREEK ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Bluegrass Plains Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Bogalusa West Pv i, LLC [b] 100
Bronx Shores Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Buchanan County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
BUFFALO GRASS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Buffalo Meadow Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Calhoun County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
CALLOWAY ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
CANADIAN COUNTY SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [b] 100
Cane Flats Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
CASS COUNTY SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [b] 100
CATTLE STAR ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Centennial Sky Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Centerville Pike Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Chimney Hill Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Choctaw County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Choctaw Fields Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
CLEAR MOUNTAIN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Crab Run Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Crane Brook Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
CRAY FIELDS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Cumberland Road North Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Cumberland Road South Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
DAKOTA PRAIRIE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Dale County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Dillon Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Dove Run Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
East Setauket Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Elkhart County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
EMERGENT VALLEY SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [b] 100
Energy Pastures Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Escambia County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Fairborn Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
FALKIRK FIELDS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Farnham Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Fentress Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Five Oaks Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Flickertail Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
FOGHORN ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Free State Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Gold Harvest Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
GOLDEN SPIRIT ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Goose Creek Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
GOOSE QUILL ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Great River Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Gsd Farming Co. LLC [b] 100
Gunlock Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Hancock County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Haycraft Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Headland-Wiregrass Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Herman Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
HERRINGTON SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [b] 100
High Oasis II Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Hill Tucker Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Holbrook Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Holtsville Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
378 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
378
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

USA continued
Huckleberry Line Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Irwin Solar I, LLC [b] 100
K RIVER ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Kcr Rto Da, LLC [b] 100
Keller Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Kidman Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Kings Fork Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Kiowa County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
KLAMATH FALLS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Lake County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Lawrence County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Levy Solar I, LLC [b] 100
Longnecker Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
LOPEZ CANYON ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Macon County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Macon Parkway Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Madison County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Madison Fields Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Manor River Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Maple Pv I, LLC [b] 100
Marion County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Marquette County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
MARTHA FIELDS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Martin County II Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Martin County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
May Valley Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Mchenry County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Mercer County II Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Mercer County III Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Mercer County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
MICHAELS CREEK ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
MIDLAND VALLEY SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [b] 100
Midland-Wiregrass Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Muscatine County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Muskegon Green Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Mustang Country Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
NEW MOON ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Nicholas County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
North Seneca Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Oak Ridge Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Oak Run Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Orangeburg County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Orangeburg South Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Orangeburg West Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
OZARK PRAIRIE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Page Street Development, LLC [b] 100
Painted Rock Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Payne County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Pike County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Pine Flats Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
PLANO SKIES ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Port Jefferson Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Portage County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
POWERS BUTTE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Prairie Canyon Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
PRAIRIE NOON ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Qmb 1 Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Qmb 2 Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Queen Flats Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Quogue Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Randolph County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
RANEGRAS PLAINS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Rayos Del Sol II Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
RED CYPRESS ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
RIVER DUNE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
ROLLING BLUFF ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
SAGE MEADOW ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
SARAH LAKE SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [b] 100
Saratoga Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Savion Chesapeake Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Savion Construction Management, LLC [b] 100
Savion LLC [b] 100
Setauket Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Sherburne County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Sheridan Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
SOUTH HILL SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [b] 100
South Suffolk Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Southern Plains Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
St. Clair County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Stamp Bainbridge Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Stamp Hilltop Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Steel Branch Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
STEEL RAIL ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
STILLY WAY ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Stony Landing Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Stony Run Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
STRAWBERRY ACRES ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Sturgeon Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Su Ranch Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Suffolk County Energy Storage II, LLC [b] 100
Suffolk County Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Sugar Harvest Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Sun Park Solar, LLC [b] 100
Sunflower Sky Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Sunflower Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
SUNSET PRAIRIE SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [b] 100
Superior Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Sutherland Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Sweeney Run Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
SWEET VALLEY ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
The Bootheel Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
The Panhandle Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Thibodaux Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
TONTOGANY PLAINS SOLAR PROJECT, LLC [b] 100
Tri-State II Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Tri-State Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
TWENTY-SIX MILE ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Walworth County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Washington Vines Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
West Babylon Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
White Moon Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
WILD PLUM ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Wild Rose Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Wildwood Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
Wolfe County Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
Yaphank Energy Storage, LLC [b] 100
YELLOW FEATHER ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
379 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
379
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

USA continued
YELLOW ROSEBUSH ENERGY CENTER, LLC [b] 100
C T CORPORATION SYSTEM, 1999 BRYAN STREET, SUITE 900, DALLAS, TX 75201
ERM Business Energy LLC [c] 100
ORYX CASPIAN PIPELINE L.L.C. [b] 100
Shell Legacy Holdings LLC 100
Source Operations Group LLC [c] 100
Source Power & Gas LLC [c] 100
SPG Energy Group LLC 100
CT CORPORATION SYSTEM, 7700 E ARAPAHOE RD, STE 220, CENTENNIAL, CO 
80112-1268
Positive Energies, LLC [b] 100
THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 
ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON, DE 19801
Arizona A1 LLC [b] 100
BG Brasilia, LLC [b] 100
BG Energy Merchants, LLC [b] 100
BG Gulf Coast LNG, LLC [b] 100
BG LNG Services, LLC [b] 100
BG LNG Trading, LLC 100
BG North America, LLC [b] 100
BG US Services, Inc. 100
Brazos Wind Ventures, LLC [b] 100
California Western Grid Development, LLC [b] 100
Concha Chemical Pipeline LLC [b] 100
CRI Sales and Services Inc. 100
CRI Zeolites Inc. 100
Ellwood Land Holdings, LLC (f/k/a Rilette Springs, LLC) [b] 100
Enterprise Oil North America Inc. 100
Equilon Enterprises LLC [b] 100
Hyder PVS LLC [b] 100
Inspire Digital Services California, LLC [b] 100
Inspire Digital Services PJM, LLC [b] 100
Inspire Digital Services USA, LLC [b] 100
Inspire Energy Capital, LLC 100
Inspire Energy Holdings, LLC [b] 100
Inspire Energy Technologies, LLC [b] 100
Jiffy Lube International, Inc. 100
Odyssey Pipeline L.L.C. [b] 71
Pecten Arabian Company 100
Pecten Brazil Exploration Company 100
Pecten Midstream LLC [b] 100
Pecten Orient Company 100
Pecten Orient Company LLC [b] 100
Pecten Producing Company 100
Pecten Trading Company 100
Pecten Victoria Company 100
Pecten Yemen Masila Company 100
Pennzoil-Quaker State Company 100
Pennzoil-Quaker State International Corporation 100
Power Limited Partnership [c] 100
PR Microgrids LLC [b] 100
Premium Velocity Auto LLC [b] 100
Pulse Power, LLC 100
Quaker State Investment Corporation 100
RK Caspian Shipping Company, LLC [b] 100
S T Exchange, Inc. 100
Sand Dollar Pipeline LLC [b] 100
SCOGI GP [c] 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Shell (US) Gas & Power M&T Holdings, Inc. 100
Shell California Pipeline Company LLC [b] 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Americas LP [c] 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Company 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies Holdings Inc. 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies LP [c] 100
Shell Catalysts & Technologies US LP [c] 100
Shell Catalysts Ventures Inc. 100
Shell Chemical Appalachia LLC [b] 100
Shell Chemical LP [c] 100
Shell Chemicals Arabia L.L.C. [b] 100
Shell Communications, Inc. 100
Shell Deepwater Royalties Inc. 100
Shell Downstream Inc. 100
Shell Energy Company 100
Shell Energy Holding GP LLC [b] 100
Shell Energy North America (US), L.P. [c] 100
Shell Energy Resources Company 100
Shell Enterprises LLC 100
Shell EP Holdings Inc. 100
Shell Expatriate Employment US Inc. 100
Shell Exploration & Production Company 100
Shell Exploration Company Inc. 100
Shell Frontier Oil & Gas Inc. 100
Shell Gas Gathering Corp. #2 100
Shell Global Solutions (US) Inc. 100
Shell GOM Pipeline Company LLC [b] 100
Shell Gulf of Mexico Inc. 100
Shell Information Technology International Inc. 100
Shell International Exploration and Production Inc. 100
Shell Lake Charles Operations, LLC [b] 100
Shell Leasing Company 100
Shell Marine Products (US) Company 100
Shell Midstream LP Holdings LLC [b] 100
Shell Midstream Operating LLC [b] 100
Shell Midstream Partners GP LLC [b] 100
Shell Midstream Partners, L.P. 100
Shell NA Gas & Power Holding Company 100
Shell NA LNG LLC [b] 100
Shell New Energies US LLC [b] 100
Shell North America Gas & Power Services Company 100
Shell Offshore and Chemical Investments Inc. 100
Shell Offshore Inc. 100
Shell Offshore Response Company LLC [b] 100
Shell Oil Company Investments Inc. 100
Shell Oil Products Company LLC [b] 100
SHELL ONSHORE VENTURES LLC 100
Shell Petroleum Inc. 100
Shell Pipeline Company LP [c] 100
Shell Pipeline GP LLC [b] 100
Shell Retail and Convenience Operations LLC [b] 100
Shell RSC Company 100
Shell Thailand E&P Inc. 100
Shell Trademark Management Inc. 100
Shell Trading (US) Company 100
Shell Trading North America Company 100
Shell Trading Risk Management, LLC [b] 100
Shell Trading Services Company 100
Shell Transportation Holdings LLC [b] 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
380 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
380
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

USA continued
Shell Treasury Center (West) Inc. 100
Shell US E&P Investments LLC [b] 100
Shell US Gas & Power LLC [b] 100
Shell US Hosting Company 100
Shell US LNG, LLC [b] 100
Shell USA, Inc. 100
Shell Ventures LLC [b] 100
Shell WindEnergy Inc. 100
Shell WindEnergy Services Inc. 100
SOI Finance Inc. 100
SOPC Holdings East LLC [b] 100
SOPC Holdings West LLC [b] 100
SOPC SOUTHEAST INC. (F/K/A MOTIVA COMPANY) 100
Studio X LLC [b] 100
SWEPI LLC 100
Tejas Coral GP, LLC [b] 100
Tejas Coral Holding, LLC [b] 100
Tejas Power Generation, LLC [b] 100
Texas-New Mexico Pipe Line Company 100
TFH Reliability Group, LLC 100
The Valley Camp Coal Company 100
TMR Company LLC 100
Triton Diagnostics Inc. 100
Triton Terminaling LLC [b] 100
Triton West LLC [b] 100
Zydeco Pipeline Company LLC [b] 100
C T CORPORATION SYSTEM, 1999 BRYAN STREET, SUITE 900, DALLAS, TX 75201-3136
EPP LLC [b] 100
MP2 Energy LLC [b] 100
MP2 Energy NE LLC [b] 100
MP2 Energy NY LLC [b] 100
MP2 Energy Retail Holdings LLC [b] 100
MP2 Energy Texas LLC [b] 100
MP2 Generation LLC [b] 100
MP2 Mesquite Creek Wind LLC [b] 100
Mpower2 LLC [b] 100
Noble Assurance Company 100
CT CORPORATION SYSTEM, 1200 SOUTH PINE ISLAND ROAD, PLANTATION, 33324
Shell MS Fuel Card, LLC [b] 100
CT CORPORATION SYSTEM, 701 S. CARSON STREET, SUITE 200, CARSON CITY, NV 
89701
Pennzoil-Quaker State Nominee Company 100
C/ CLAUDIO GUERIN, KANSAS, MO/64106
Red Clover Solar Project, LLC [b] 100
VANUATU
422 ADMIRAL BLVD, KANSAS CITY, MO 64106
Savannah Oaks Solar Project, LLC 100
VENEZUELA
AVENIDA ORINOCO, EDIFICO CENTRO EMPRESARIAL, PREMIUM PISO 2 OFICINA 2-
B, URBANIZACIÓN LAS MERCEDES, CARACAS, 1060
Shell Venezuela Productos, C.A. 100
AVENIDA ORINOCO, EDIFICO CENTRO EMPRESARIAL, PREMIUM PISO 2 OFICINAS 2-
A Y 2-B, URBANIZACIÓN LAS MERCEDES, CARACAS, 1060
Shell Venezuela, S.A. 100
VIETNAM
GO DAU INDUSTRIAL ZONE, PHUOC THAI COMMUNE, LONG THANH DISTRICT, 
DONG NAI PROVINCE
Shell Vietnam Ltd 100
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
381 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
381
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Other related undertakings
ARGENTINA
AVENIDA PTE. ROQUE SÁENZ PENA 788, 2ND FLOOR, CIUDAD DE BUENOS AIRES, 
1035
Bandurria Sur Investments S.A. 50
AUSTRALIA
5 TULLY ROAD, EAST PERTH, 6004
OVIDRIVE APPLABS PTY LTD 42
C/- FORESIGHT AUSTRALIA FUNDS MANAGEMENT, SUITE 3, LEVEL 5, 20 HUNTER 
STREET, SYDNEY, 2000
Kondinin Renewables Holdings Pty Ltd ATF Kondinin Renewables Holdings Trust 50
C/O JEFFERY ZIVIN, UNIT 4, 4 GEORGE STREET, CAMBERWELL, VIC 3124
Solpod Pty Ltd 24
INFRASTRUCTURE CAPITAL GROUP, LEVEL 15 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY, NSW 2000
NewGen Neerabup Pty Ltd [a] 50
NewGen Power Neerabup Pty Ltd [a] 50
LEVEL 39, 111 EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE, QLD 4000
Arrow Energy Holdings Pty Ltd 50
LEVEL 4, 13 CREMORNE STREET, RICHMOND, VIC 3121
ESCO Pacific Holdings Pty Ltd 49
LEVEL 4, 459 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC 3000
1st Energy Pty Ltd 30
OFFICE 4, 17 GOODE STREET, GISBORNE, VIC 3437
WestWind Energy Development Pty Ltd 49
AUSTRIA
INNSBRUCKER BUNDESSTRASSE 95, SALZBURG, 5020
Salzburg Fuelling GmbH 33
KIENBURG 11, MATREI IN OSTTIROL, 9971
Transalpine Ölleitung in Österreich GmbH 19
RETTENLACKSTRASSE 3, SALZBURG, 5020
TBG Tanklager Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H. 50
BERMUDA
CLARENDON HOUSE, 2 CHURCH STREET, HAMILTON, HM 11
Egypt LNG Shipping Limited 25
Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd 28
BRAZIL
AVENIDA DAS ALMIRANTE BARROSO, Nº 81, 36º ANDAR, SALA 36A104, RIO DE 
JANEIRO, 20031-004
Raizen S.A. 44
AVENIDA PAULISTA, 1274, 8º ANDAR, CONJUNTO 23, SALA B, BELA VISTA, SÃO 
PAULO, 01310-100
Marlim Azul Energia S.A. 30
BRUNEI
BRUNEI SHELL PETROLEUM COMPANY, SENDIRIAN BERHAD, SERIA, KB2933
Brunei Shell Marketing Company Sendirian Berhad 50
JALAN UTARA, PANAGA, SERIA, KB2933
Brunei Shell Petroleum Company Sendirian Berhad 50
Brunei Shell Tankers Sendirian Berhad 25
LUMUT, SERIA, KC2935
Brunei LNG Sendirian Berhad 25
CANADA
1701 HOLLIS STREET, SUITE 1400, HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, B3J 3M8
Sable Offshore Energy Inc. 33
199 BAY STREET, SUITE 5300, COMMERCE COURT WEST, TORONTO, ONTARIO, M5L 
1B9
SFJ Inc. 50
400 4TH AVENUE S.W., CALGARY, ALBERTA, T2P 0J4
FP Solutions Corporation 33
LNG Canada Development Inc. [a] 40
Company by country and address of incorporation %
45 VOGEL ROAD, SUITE 310, RICHMOND HILL, ONTARIO, L4B 3P6
Trans-Northern Pipelines Inc. 33
5305 MCCALL WAY N.E., CALGARY, ALBERTA, T2E 7N7
Alberta Products Pipe Line Ltd. 20
830 HIGHWAY NO. 6 NORTH, FLAMBOROUGH, ONTARIO, L0R 2H0
Sun-Canadian Pipe Line Company Limited 45
CHINA
18TH FLOOR, TOWER 1, YONGLI INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CENTRE, JINYE NO. 1 
ROAD, HIGH-TECH DISTRICT, XI'AN, 710075
Yanchang and Shell Petroleum Company Limited 45
23F, YANLORD SQUARE, SECTION 2, RENMIN SOUTH ROAD, CHENGDU, SICHUAN, 
610016
Yanchang and Shell (Sichuan) Petroleum Company Limited 45
BAISHA, HEKOU, SANSHUI DISTRICT, FOSHAN, GUANGDONG, 528133
Shell Road Solutions Xinyue (Foshan) Co. Ltd. 60
BUILDING NO. 2, HEBEI GUOKONG NORTHERN SILICON VALLEY HIGH-TECH NEW 
CITY, NO. 28 EAST ZHANQIAN STREET, QIAODONG DISTRICT, ZHANGJIAKOU, 
075000
Zhangjiakou City Transport and Shell New Energy Co., Ltd 48
DAYAWAN PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRIAL PARK, HUIZHOU, GUANGDONG, 516086
CNOOC and Shell Petrochemicals Company Limited 50
NO. 1 DONGXIN ROAD, JIANGSU YANGTZE RIVER INTERNATIONAL, CHEMICAL 
INDUSTRY PARK, ZHANGJIAGANG, JIANGSU, 215600
Infineum (China) Co. Ltd. 50
NO. 100, XINGANG DADAO, NANJING ECONOMIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL 
DEVELOPMENT ZONE, NANJING, JIANGSU, 210000
Sinopec and Shell (Jiangsu) Petroleum Marketing Company Limited 40
NO. 358 ZHUHUI ROAD, SUZHOU, 215000
Suzhou Liyuan Retail Site Management Co., Ltd. 50
ROOM 2103, NORTH TOWER, YEFENG MODERN CENTER, NO. 161, SHAOXING 
ROAD, XIACHENG DISTRICT, HANGZHOU, ZHEJIANG, 310004
Zhejiang Shell Fuels Company Limited 49
ROOM 518, 5TH FLOOR, OFFICE BUILDING, TIANJIN FOOD GROUP COMPANY LTD, 
NO. 96, QIXIANGTAI ROAD, HEXI DISTRICT, TIANJIN, 300074
Shell North China Petroleum Group Co., Ltd. 49
ROOM 609, BUILDING NO. 1, NO. 388 NORTH MU HUA ROAD, FENGXIAN DIST, 
SHANGHAI, 200120
Climate Bridge (Shanghai) Ltd. 49
UNIT 1101-1104, LEVEL 11, BUILDING 1, NO. 19 CHAOYANG PARK ROAD, CHAOYANG 
DISTRICT, BEIJING, 100125
Beijing Shell Petroleum Company Ltd. 49
UNIT 604, 6/F, BUILDING C, NO. 3 YUNAN FOURTH ROAD, FTPZ XIAMEN SUB-
ZONE (TARIFF-FREE ZONE), XIAMEN, 361000
Fujian Xiangyu and Shell Petroleum Company Limited 49
39TH FLOOR, LEATOP PLAZA, NO. 32 EAST ZHUJIANG ROAD, ZHUJIANG NEW 
TOWN, TIANHE DISTRICT, GUANGDONG, 510623
Yanchang and Shell (Guangdong) Petroleum Co., Ltd. 49
BLOCK 10, NO.860 XINYANG ROAD, LINGANG SPECIAL AREA, PILOT FREE TRADE 
ZONE, SHANGHAI, 201413
Shanghai Shenergy and Shell New Energy Company Limited 50
CÔTE D'IVOIRE
14, BLVD CARDE, IMM. LES HEVEAS, PLATEAU, ABIDJAN, BP V 194
Cote d'Ivoire GNL 13
CYPRUS
METOCHIOU STR, 37, AGIOS ANDREAS, NICOSIA, CY-1101
Rosneft-Shell Caspian Ventures Limited 49
DENMARK
BREDGADE 30, KØBENHAVN K, 1260
TetraSpar Demonstrator ApS 66
NÆRUM HOVEDGADE 8, NAERUM, 2850
DCC & Shell Aviation Denmark A/S 49
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
382 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
382
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

EGYPT
28 ROAD 270, MAADI, CAIRO
Burullus Gas Company S.A.E. [a] 25
38 STREET NO. 270, MAADI, CAIRO
Rashid Petroleum Company S.A.E. [a] 50
CITY OF RASHID, EL BEHERA GOVERNORATE
El Behera Natural Gas Liquefaction Company S.A.E. 36
IDKU Natural Gas Liquefaction Company S.A.E. 38
The Egyptian LNG Company S.A.E. 36
THE EGYPTIAN OPERATING COMPANY FOR NATURAL GAS LIQUEFACTION 
PROJECTS S.A.E. 36
FRANCE
10 PLACE DE CATALOGNE, PARIS, 75014
Eolfi Offshore France 10
Ferme Eolienne Flottante de Groix & Belle-Ile 30
135, BD BINEAU, NEUILLY SUR SEINE, F - 92200
Soc. de. Part. Dans "SPITP" Sarl 53
AÉROPORT ROISSY CHARLES DE GAULLE, ZONE DE FRÊT 1, 3 RUE DES VIGNES, 
TREMBLAY-EN-FRANCE, 93290
Groupement Pétrolier Aviation SNC 20
CHEMIN DÉPARTEMENTAL 54, BERRE-L'ETANG, 13130
Infineum France 50
ORLY SUD NO. 144 - BAT. 438, ORLY AEROGARES, 94541
Service Aviation Paris SNC 33
ROUTE D'ARLES, LA FENOUILLÈRE, FOS-SUR-MER, 13270
Ste du Pipeline Sud Européen S.A. 21
GERMANY
BERGHAUSENER STRAßE 96, LANGENFELD, 40764
AGES Maut System GmbH & Co. KG 25
BRUEHLER STR. 95, WESSELING, 50389
Wasserbeschaffungsverband Wesseling-Hersel 35
CAFFAMACHERREIHE 5, HAMBURG, 20355
BEB Holding GmbH [a] 50
DEA-SCHOLVEN-STR., KARLSRUHE, 76187
Mineraloelraffinerie Oberrhein Verwaltungs GmbH 32
Oberrheinische Mineraloelwerke GmbH [a] 42
EUREF-CAMPUS 10-11, BERLIN, 10829
H2 Mobility Deutschland GmbH and Co. KG 27
FRANZÖSISCHE STRAßE 33 A-C, BERLIN, 10117
Toll4Europe GmbH 15
GODORFER HAUPTSTRASSE 186, KÖLN, 50997
Rhein-Main-Rohrleitungstransportgesellschaft mbH [a] 63
NEUSSER LANDSTRAßE 16, KÖLN, 50735
Deutsche Infineum GmbH & Co. KG 50
Infineum Deutschland Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH 50
PASSOWER CHAUSSEE 111, SCHWEDT/ODER, 16303
PCK Raffinerie GmbH [a] 38
PAUL WASSERMANN STR. 3, MUNICH, 81829
Deutsche Transalpine Oelleitung GmbH 19
VAHRENWALDER STRASSE 238, HANNOVER, 30179
BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH & Co. KG [a] 33
Erdoel-Raffinerie Deurag-Nerag GmbH 33
ZUM OELHAFEN 207, WILHELMSHAVEN, 26384
Nord-West Oelleitung GmbH [a] 20
BROOK 2,BLOCK H, HAMBURG, 20457
OLF Deutschland GmbH 50
GIBRALTAR
57/63 LINE WALL ROAD, P.O. BOX 199, GIBRALTAR
Shell LNG Gibraltar Limited 51
GREECE
151 KIFISIAS AVE., MAROUSI, ATHENS, 15124
Shell & MOH Aviation Fuels A.E. 51
Company by country and address of incorporation %
HONG KONG
3 SCENIC ROAD, CHEK LAP KOK, LANTAU
AFSC Operations Limited 11
AFSC Refuelling Limited 11
ESSO TSING YI TERMINAL, LOT 46 TSING YI ROAD, TSING YI ISLAND, NEW 
TERRITORIES
Hong Kong Response Limited 25
INDIA
102, PRESTIGE SIGMA, VITTAL MALLYA ROAD, BANGALORE, 560001
Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels and Services Limited 50
ENKING EMBASSY, PLOT 48, SCHEME 78 PART-2, VIJAY NAGAR, INDORE, 452010
Amrut Nature Solutions Private Limited 49
TIKI TAR INDUSTRIES VILLAGE ROAD, NEAR BHANDUP VILLAGE, BHANDUP WEST 
MUMBAI, MUMBAI, MH 400078
Tiki Tar and Shell India Private Limited 50
IRAQ
KHOR AL ZUBAIR, BASRAH
Basrah Gas Company 44
IRELAND
SUITE 7 NORTHWOOD HOUSE, NORTHWOOD BUSINESS PARK, SANTRY, DUBLIN, 9
Shell and Topaz Aviation Ireland Limited 50
WOODBINE HILL, YOUGHAL, COUNTY CORK, P36 NW52
Emerald Offshore Wind Limited 51
Western Star Wind Limited 51
ISRAEL
DERECH ABA HILEL 16, RAMAT GAN, 5250608
Ravin AI Ltd. 36
ITALY
STRADA DI SCORRIMENTO 2, VADO LIGURE, SAVONA, 17047
Infineum Italia S.R.L. 50
VIA GIORGIO RIBOTTA 51, ROME, 00144
Societa' Oleodotti Meridionali S.p.A. 30
VIA MUGGIA #1, SAN DORLIGO DELLA VALLE, TRIESTE, 34147
Societa Italiana per l'Oleodotto Transalpino S.p.A. 19
JAPAN
1-1-5 WAKAMIYA-CHO, SUMA-KU, KOBE-SHI, HYOGO, 654-0049
Y.K. Nishi-Kobe Bosai Center 33
2-3, KANDA, AWAJI-CHO, CHIYODA-KU, TOKYO, 101-0063
Sakhalin LNG Services Company Ltd. 50
72-34, HORIKAWA-CHO, SAIWAI-KU, KAWASAKI, KAWASAKI, 212-8585
Next Kraftwerke Toshiba Corporation 49
7F KOKURYU SHIBA KOEN BUILDING 2-6-15, SHIBA KOEN, MINATO-KU, TOKYO, 
105-0011
CO2-free Hydrogen Energy Supply-chain TRA 25
SUMITOMO FUDOSAN ONARIMON-EKIMAE BLDG, 6-17-21, SHIMBASHI, MINATO-
KU, TOKYO, 105-0004
AJIGASAWA OFFSHORE WIND POWER GENERATION K.K 50
LUXEMBOURG
412F, ROUTE D'ESCH, LUXEMBOURG, L-2086
Denham International Power SCSp [c] 32
MALAYSIA
LEVEL 30, TOWER 1, PETRONAS TWIN TOWERS, KLCC, KUALA LUMPUR/FEDERAL 
TERRITORY, 50088
P S Pipeline Sendirian Berhad 50
LEVEL 8, SYMPHONY HOUSE, BLOCK D13, PUSAT DAGANGAN DANA 1, JALAN PJU 
1A/46, PETALING JAYA/SELANGOR DARUL EHSAN, 47301
Bonuskad Loyalty Sdn. Bhd. [f] 33
LOT 7689 AND LOT 7690, SECTION 64, KUCHING TOWN LAND DISTRICT, JALAN 
PENDING, KUCHING, SARAWAK, 93450
IOT Management Sdn. Bhd. 7
Tanjung Manis Oil Terminal Management Sdn. Bhd. 14
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
383 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
383
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

MALAYSIA continued
SUITE 13.03, 13 FLOOR, MENARA TAN & TAN, 207 TUN RAZAK, KUALA LUMPUR/
FEDERAL TERRITORY, 50400
Kebabangan Petroleum Operating Company Sdn. Bhd. [a] 30
LEVEL 11, MENARA TH 1 SENTRAL, JALAN RAKYAT, KUALA LUMPUR SENTRAL, WILAYAH 
PERSEKUTUAN, KUALA LUMPUR, 50470
P S Terminal Sendirian Berhad 35
WISMA GOSHEN, 2ND FLOOR, 60, 62 & 64, JALAN SS22/21, DAMANSARA JAYA, 
47400 PETALING JAYA, SELANGOR, PETALING JAYA, 47400
Pixelbyte Sdn Bhd 50
MEXICO
AVENIDA CERRO GORDO DEL CAMPESTRE, NUMBER 201, INTERIOR 202, OF 
COLONIA LAS QUINTAS, LEÓN, GUANAJUATO, 37125
Mega Gasolineras SA de CV 50
GUILLERMO GONZÁLEZ CAMARENA NO. 400, SANTA FE, LVARO OBREGÓN, 
CIUDAD DE MÉXICO, 1210
Concilia Asesores y Servicios, S.A. de C.V. 50
PROLONGACION PAESO DE LA REFOMA NO. 600, SANTA FE, ALVARO OBREGÓN, 
CIUDAD DE MÉXICO, 1210
Comercial Importadora S.A. De C.V. 50
NETHERLANDS
AMSTERDAMSEWEG 55, 1182 GP AMSTELVEEN, P.O. BOX 75650, LUCHTHAVEN 
SCHIPHOL, 1118 ZS
Amsterdam Schiphol Pijpleiding Beheer B.V. 40
BUTAANWEG 215, VONDELINGPLAAT, ROTTERDAM, 3196 KC
N.V. Rotterdam-Rijn Pijpleiding Maatschappij [a] 56
CAREL VAN BYLANDTLAAN 30, THE HAGUE, 2596 HR
BJS Oil Operations B.V. 80
Cicerone Holding B.V. 51
Geocombinatie Leeuwarden B.V. 30
Salym Petroleum Development N.V. 50
Shell and Vivo Lubricants B.V. 50
Tamba B.V. 50
DR. HUB VAN DOORNEWEG 183, TILBURG, 5026 RD
Travis Road Services International B.V. 34
EUROPAWEG 975, MAASVLAKTE, ROTTERDAM, 3199 LC
Maasvlakte Olie Terminal C.V. [c] 16
HERIKERBERGWEG 238, AMSTERDAM, 1101 CM
Bogstone Holding B.V. 51
Infineum Holdings B.V. 50
HOFPLEIN 20, ROTTERDAM, 3032AC
CrossWind Beheer B.V. [a] 80
Crosswind C.V. [a] [c] 80
MUIDERSTRAAT 1, AMSTERDAM, 1011 PZ
Caspi Meruerty Operating Company B.V. [a] 40
OOSTDUINLAAN 2, THE HAGUE, 2596 JM
North Caspian Operating Company N.V. [a] 17
OOSTERHORN 36, FARMSUM, 9936 HD
Zeolyst C.V. 50
P.O. BOX 477, GRONINGEN, 9700 AL
Gasterra B.V. 25
REACTORWEG 301, UNIT 1.3, UTRECHT, 3542 AD
Paqell B.V. 50
SCHEPERSMAAT 2, ASSEN, 9405 TA
NAM Offshore B.V. 25
Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. 50
STATIONSPLEIN 45, 4TH FLOOR, ROTTERDAM, 3013 AK
Investancia Group B.V. [a] 30
STRAWINSKYLAAN 1343, AMSTERDAM, 1077 XX
Shell & AMG Recycling B.V [c] 50
STRAWINSKYLAAN 1345, AMSTERDAM, 1077 XX
Karachaganak Petroleum Operating B.V. [a] 29
Company by country and address of incorporation %
VONDELINGENWEG 601, VONDELINGENPLAAT, ROTTERDAM, 3196 KK
Ellba B.V. [a] 50
Ellba C.V. [a] [c] 50
VOORSTRAAT 67, GROOT-AMMERS, 2964 AJ
BlueAlp Holding B.V. 21
WEENA 70, ROTTERDAM, 3012 CM
Blauwwind II C.V. [c] 20
Blauwwind Management II B.V. 20
WEENA 762, 9E VERDIEPING, ROTTERDAM, 3014 DA
Guara B.V. 30
Iara B.V. 4
Lapa Oil & Gas B.V. 30
Libra Oil & Gas B.V. 20
Tupi B.V. 23
WIJNAND VAN ARNHEMVEG 8, OOSTERBEEK, 6862 XM
iLNG B.V. 28
ZEELANDSESTRAAT 1, MILLINGEN AAN DE RIJN, 6566 DE
SolarNow B.V. 23
LAARDERHOOGTWEG 18, AMSTERDAM, 1101 EA
Aecorsis B.V. 23
ANTARESLAAN 39, P.O. BOX 3068, HOOFDDORP, 2132 JE
Multi Tank Card B.V. 30
POLARIS AVENUE 81, P.O. BOX 2047, HOOFDDORP, 2132 JH
Loyalty Management Netherlands B.V. 40
NIGERIA
CORPORATE OFFICE, INTELS ABA ROAD ESTATE, KM16 ABA EXPRESSWAY, PORT 
HARCOURT, 500211
Nigeria LNG Limited 26
NLNG Shipping Management Limited 20
NORWAY
BYFJORDPARKEN 15, STAVANGER, 4007
Northern Lights JV DA [c] 33
KONGSGÅRDBAKKEN 1, STAVANGER, 4005
Enhanced Well Technologies Group AS 22
KRISTIAN AUGUSTS GATE 13, OSLO, 0164
Aviation Fuelling Services Norway AS 50
MONGSTAD 71A, MONGSTAD, 5954
Technology Centre Mongstad DA 9
NYHAMNA, AUKRA, 6480
Ormen Lange Eiendom DA 18
OMAN
P.O. BOX 560, MINA AL FAHAL, MUSCAT, 116
Oman LNG LLC 30
P.O. BOX 81, MINA AL FAHAL, MUSCAT, 113
Petroleum Development Oman LLC 33
PAKISTAN
E110, KHAYABAN E JINNAH, LAHORE CANTONEMENT, PUNJAB, CANTONEMENT, 
54810
Pakistan Energy Gateway Limited 33
OFFICE NO 8, LEVEL 3, GROUND FLOOR, SERENA BUSINESS COMPLEX, KHAYABAN-
E-SUHRDWARDY, G-5/1, ISLAMABAD, 44000
Pak Arab Pipeline Company Limited 20
PHILIPPINES
2ND FLOOR, BONIFACIO TECHNOLOGY CENTER, 31ST STREET CORNER 2ND 
AVENUE, BONIFACIO GLOBAL CITY, TAGUIG, METRO MANILA, 1635
Bonifacio Gas Corporation 24
LEVEL 3B, 111 PASEO DE ROXAS BLDG., PASEO DE ROXAS AVE, LEGASPI VILLAGE, SAN 
LORENZO, MAKATI CITY, 0000
Tablas Strait Offshore Wind Power Corporation [a] 39
NDC BLDG., 116 TORDESILLAS ST., SALCEDO VILLAGE, MAKATI CITY, METRO MANILA, 
1227
Kamayan Realty Corporation 22
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
384 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
384
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

PHILIPPINES continued
UNIT D 9TH FLOOR INOZA TOWER, 40TH STREET, NORTH BONIFACIO, BONIFACIO 
GLOBAL CITY, TAGUIG, METRO MANILA, 1634
Tabangao Realty, Inc. 40
UNIT 1, 9TH FLOOR, ORE CENTRAL TOWER, 31ST STREET CORNER 9TH AVENUE, 
BONIFACIO GLOBAL CITY, TAGUIG CITY, METRO MANILA, FORT BONIFACIO 1634
Greenlight Renewables Holding Inc 40
QATAR
1ST FLOOR, AL-MIRQAB TOWER, DOHA
Marine LNG Solutions LLC [a] 50
P.O. BOX 22666, DOHA
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (4) 30
QATARENERGY HQ TOWER 4, PODIUM LEVEL, BUILDING NO. 4, STREET NO. 951, 
DOHA, ZONE 63
Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (6) 25
RUSSIA
24 A YAKUBOVICHA UL., SAINT PETERSBURG, 190000
Khanty-Mansiysk Petroleum Alliance Closed Joint Stock Company [a] 50
SAUDI ARABIA
P.O. BOX 41467, RIYADH, 11521
Al Jomaih and Shell Lubricating Oil Co.Ltd. 50
SINGAPORE
1 HARBOURFRONT AVENUE, #08-01/08, KEPPEL BAY TOWER, SINGAPORE, 098632
Infineum Singapore LLP 50
100 PECK SEAH STREET, #10-18 PS100, SINGAPORE, 079333
LRDTECH PTE LTD 0
15, AIRLINE ROAD, SINGAPORE, 819828
Changi Airport Fuel Hydrant Installation Pte. Ltd. 11
160 TUAS SOUTH AVENUE 5, SINGAPORE, 637364
Singapore Lube Park Pte. Ltd. [a] 44
25 CHURCH STREET, 03-04 CAPITAL SQUARE THREE, SINGAPORE, 049482
Cleantech Renewable Assets Pte Ltd 49
5 BENOI PLACE, #02, SINGAPORE, 629926
Best Petrol and Diesel Supply Pte. Ltd. [c] 45
50 GUL ROAD, SINGAPORE, 629351
Fuelng Pte. Ltd [a] 50
50 RAFFLES PLACE #06-00, SINGAPORE LAND TOWER, SINGAPORE, 048623
Orb Energy Pte Ltd. 24
THE METROPOLIS TOWER 1, 9 NORTH BUONA VISTA DRIVE, #07-01, SINGAPORE, 
138588
Connected Freight Pte. Ltd. 78
QPI and Shell Petrochemicals (Singapore) Pte Ltd 51
Sirius Well Manufacturing Services Pte. Ltd. 50
SOUTH AFRICA
1ST FLOOR OXFORD PARKS, 199 OXFORD ROAD, DUNKELD, GAUTENG, 2196
Sekelo Oil Trading (Pty) Limited 43
HONSHU ROAD, DURBAN, 4001
Blendcor (Pty) Ltd. [a] 36
REUNION, DURBAN, 4001
Shell & BP South African Petroleum Refineries (Pty) Limited [a] 36
TWICKENHAM, THE CAMPUS, 57 SLOAN STREET, EPSOM DOWNS, BRYANSTON, 
2021
Bituguard Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd 36
SOUTH KOREA
640-6, DAEJUK-RI, DAESAN-EUP, SEOSAN-SHI, CHUNGCHONGNAM-DO, 356-713
Hyundai and Shell Base Oil Co., Ltd 40
#704-3, TOWER B.HYUNDAI KNOWLEDGE INDUSTRIAL CENTER, 70 DUSAN-RO, 
GEUMCHEON-GU, SEOUL, 08584
Korea Impact Carbon Corporation 40
SPAIN
RIO BULLAQUE, 2, MADRID, 28034
Shell & Disa Aviation España, S.L. 50
Company by country and address of incorporation %
SWEDEN
P.O. BOX 135, STOCKHOLM-ARLANDA, 190 46
A Flygbränslehantering Aktiebolag 25
P.O. BOX 2154, GOTHENBURG, 438 14
Gothenburg Fuelling Company AB 33
P.O. BOX 85, STOCKHOLM-ARLANDA, 190 45
Stockholm Fuelling Services AB 25
STURUP FLYGPLATS, P.O. BOX 22, MALMÖ, 230 32
Malmö Fuelling Services AB 33
SWITZERLAND
AUTOSTRADA A2 (DIREZIONE GOTTARDO), HOTEL BELLINZONA SUD, MONTE 
CARASSO, 6513
Stazioni Autostradali Bellinzona SA 50
ROUTE DE PRÉ-BOIS 17, COINTRIN, 1216
Saraco SA 20
ROUTE DE VERNIER 132, VERNIER, 1214
SOGEP Sociéte Genevoise des Pétroles SA 34
ZWÜSCHETEICH, RÜMLANG, 8153
UBAG - Unterflurbetankungsanlage Flughafen Zürich AG 20
SYRIA
DAMASCUS NEW SHAM WESTERN DUMMAR, ISLAND NO. 1 - PROPERTY 2299, P.O. 
BOX 7660, DAMASCUS
Al Badiah Petroleum Company 22
Al Furat Petroleum Company 20
TAIWAN
NO. 2, TSO-NAN ROAD, NAN-TZE DISTRICT, P.O. BOX 25-30, KAOHSIUNG, 811
CPC Shell Lubricants Co. Ltd 51
TANZANIA
1ST FLOOR KILWA HOUSE, PLOT 369, TOURE DRIVE, OYSTER BAY, P.O. BOX 105833, 
DAR ES SALAAM
Fahari Gas Marketing Company Limited 53
Mzalendo Gas Processing Company Limited 53
Ruvuma Pipeline Company Limited 53
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
1 INTERNATIONAL DRIVE, WESTMOORINGS
The International School of Port of Spain Limited 25
5 SAINT CLAIR AVENUE, SAINT CLAIR, PORT OF SPAIN
Point Fortin LNG Exports Limited 81
TUNISIA
IMMEUBLE MEZGHENNI, RUE DU LAC WINDERMERE, LES BERGES DU LAC, TUNIS, 
1053 - BP 36
Amilcar Petroleum Operations S.A. 50
TURKEY
DILOVASI ORGANIZE SANAYI BOLGESI 1.KISIM, 1004 SOKAK NO:10, DILOVASI, 
KOCAELI
Samsun Akaryakit VE Depolama A.S. 35
LIMAN MAHALLESI 60. SOKAK NO. 25, KONYAALTI, ANTALYA, 07070
Cekisan Depolama Hizmetleri Ltd. Sti. 46
SULTANKOY MAHALLESI MALTEPE SOKAK NO:66, MARMARA EREGLISI, TEKIRDAG, 
59750
Marmara Depoculuk Hizmetleri A.S. 35
YAKUPLU MAH. GENCOSMAN CAD. NO:7, BEYLIKDUZU, ISTANBUL, 34524
Ambarli Depolama Hizmetleri Ltd. Sti. 35
UK
44-46 OLD STEINE, BRIGHTON, BN1 1NH
Stansted Fuelling Company Limited 14
50 LOTHIAN ROAD, FESTIVAL SQUARE, EDINBURGH, EH3 9WJ
CAMPIONWIND LIMITED [a] 50
MARRAMWIND LIMITED [a] 50
5-7 ALEXANDRA ROAD, HEMEL HEMPSTEAD, HERTFORDSHIRE, HP2 5BS
British Pipeline Agency Limited 50
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
385 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
385
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

UK continued
United Kingdom Oil Pipelines Limited [a] 48
Walton-Gatwick Pipeline Company Limited [a] 52
West London Pipeline and Storage Limited [a] 38
ATHENA HOUSE, ATHENA DRIVE, TACHBROOK PARK, WARWICK, CV34 6RL
Autogas Limited 50
BUILDING 1204, SANDRINGHAM ROAD, HEATHROW AIRPORT, HOUNSLOW, 
MIDDLESEX, TW6 3SH
Heathrow Airport Fuel Company Limited 14
Heathrow Hydrant Operating Company Limited 10
JOHNSTON CARMICHAEL OFFICE, G08 (GROUND FLOOR) BIRCHIN COURT, 20 
BIRCHIN LANE, LONDON, EC3V9DU
Kite Power Systems Limited 34
LEVEL 39, ONE CANADA SQUARE, LONDON, E14 5AB
Applied Blockchain Ltd 22
MAIN ROAD, WATERSTON, MILFORD HAVEN, PEMBROKESHIRE, SA73 1DR
Dragon LNG Group Limited [a] 50
ONE BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE, LONDON, EC1A 7BL
Gatwick Airport Storage and Hydrant Company Limited 13
Manchester Airport Storage and Hydrant Company Limited 25
PANNONE CORPORATE LLP, 378-380 DEANSGATE, CASTLEFIELD, MANCHESTER, M3 
4LY
Steama Company Limited 33
PO BOX 1, MILTON HILL, ABINGDON, OXFORDSHIRE, OX13 6BB
Infineum International Limited 50
SHELL CENTRE, LONDON, SE1 7NA
Eastham Refinery Limited [a] 50
The Consolidated Petroleum Company Limited 50
SHELL MEX AND B.P. LIMITED 60
SM Realisations Limited 60
UKRAINE
M. HRINCHENKO, 4, KIEV, 03038
Alliance Holding LLC [c] 51
Invest-Region LLC [c] 51
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
EMDAD AVIATION FUEL STORAGE FZCO, P.O. BOX 261781, JEBEL ALI, DUBAI
Emdad Aviation Fuel Storage FZCO 33
P.O. BOX 665, ABU DHABI
Abu Dhabi Gas Industries Limited (GASCO) 15
URUGUAY
LA CUMPARSITA, 1373 4TH FLOOR, MONTEVIDEO, 11200
Dinarel S.A. 50
Gasoducto Cruz del Sur S.A. 40
USA
10000 MING AVENUE, BAKERSFIELD, CA 93311
Aera Energy LLC [a] 52
Aera Energy Services Company 50
10346 BRECKSVILLE RD, BRECKSVILLE, OH 44141
True North Energy LLC 50
150 N. DAIRY ASHFORD, HOUSTON, TX 77079
Gaviota Terminal Company [c] 20
16285 PARK TEN PLACE, SUIT 300, HOUSTON, TX 77084
Bluware Headwave Ventures Inc. 20
1740 ED TEMPLE BLVD, NASHVILLE, TN 37208
Tri Star Energy LLC 33
1900 EAST LINDEN AVENUE, LINDEN, NJ 07036
Infineum USA Inc 50
2050 PLAINFIELD PIKE, CRANSTON, RI 02921
Colbea Enterprises, LLC 50
Company by country and address of incorporation %
2100 GENG ROAD, SUITE 210, SANTA CLARA, PALO ALTO, CA 94303
D.Light Design Inc. 34
2237 HATCHER HILL ROAD, BACONTON, GA 31716
Baconton Power LLC [b] 35
2441 HIGH TIMBERS DRIVE, SUITE 220, THE WOODLANDS, TX 77380
Distributed Generation Solutions LLC 33
3333 HWY 6 SOUTH, HOUSTON, TX 77082
Zeolyst International 50
3450 E. COMMERCIAL CT., MERIDIAN, ID 83642
Pacwest Energy, LLC. 50
4080 WEST JONATHAN MOORE PIKE, COLUMBUS, IN 47201
RDK Ventures, LLC 50
41805 ALBRAE STREET, FREMONT, CA 94538
Au Energy, LLC 50
850 NEW BURTON ROAD, SUITE 201, DOVER, DELAWARE, DE 19904
Eleox LLC [b] 17
930 WHITMORE DRIVE, ROCKWALL, 75087
Shell & Whitmore Reliability Solutions, LLC [b] 50
BECHTEL ENTERPRISES, 12011 SUNSET HILLS ROAD, RESTON, VA 20190
Maple Power Holdings LLC [a] 68
CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 251 LITTLE FALLS DRIVE, WILMINGTON, DE 
19808
Atlantic Shores Offshore Wind, LLC [b] 50
Bengal Pipeline Company LLC 58
Colonial Pipeline Company 16
Cumulus Digital Systems, Inc. 30
Quantico Energy Solutions, Inc. 38
West Shore Pipe Line Company 19
CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY, 2711 CENTERVILLE ROAD, SUITE 400, 
WILMINGTON, DE 19808
Infineum USA L.P. [e] 50
RL & F SERVICE CORP, 920 N KING ST FLOOR 2, NEW CASTLE, WILMINGTON, DE 
19801
Atlantic 1 Holdings LLC [b] 46
Atlantic 2/3 Holdings LLC [b] 58
Atlantic 4 Holdings LLC [b] 51
THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CORPORATION TRUST CENTER, 1209 
ORANGE STREET, WILMINGTON, DE 19801
Amberjack Pipeline Company LLC [b] 63
Caesar Oil Pipeline Company, LLC [b] 15
Crestwood Permian Basin LLC 50
Diamond Energy. LLC [b] 50
Endymion Oil Pipeline Company, LLC [b] 10
Explorer Pipeline Company 39
Husk Power Systems, Inc. 30
LOCAP LLC 41
LOOP LLC 46
Mars Oil Pipeline Company LLC [b] 72
Mattox Pipeline Company LLC [b] 79
Mayflower Wind Energy LLC [b] 50
Peru LNG Company LLC [b] 20
Poseidon Oil Pipeline Company, LLC 36
Proteus Oil Pipeline Company, LLC [b] 10
Ship Shoal Pipeline Company LLC [c] 43
Silicon Ranch Corporation 44
Three Wind Holdings, LLC [b] 50
URSA Oil Pipeline Company LLC [b] 45
15445 INNOVATION DRIVE, SAN DIEGO,CA, 92128
Mid-Atlantic Offshore Development, LLC [b] 50
1191 2ND AVENUE, SUITE 1900, SEATTLE, WA 98101-2993
Airbiquity Inc. 20
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
386 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
386
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

VENEZUELA
AVENIDA LEONARDO DA VINCI, EDIFICIO PDV SERVICIOS, CARACAS, DISTRITO 
CAPITAL
Sucre Gas, S.A. 30
ZAMBIA
7TH FLOOR,NATIONAL SAVINGS & CREDIT BANK BUILDING,NORTH END,CAIRO 
ROAD,LUSAKA
Shell Zambia Limited 72
ZIMBABWE
BLOCK 1, TENDESEKA OFFICE PARK, CNR SAMORA MACHEL AVENUE, RENFREW 
ROAD, HARARE
Central African Petroleum Refineries (Private) Limited 21
Company by country and address of incorporation %
Additional Information | Appendix 1
Significant subsidiaries and other related undertakings (audited) continued
387 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
387
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Five-year financial data set
Consolidated Statement of Income
$ million
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Revenue  381,314  261,504  180,543  344,877  388,379 
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates  3,972  4,097  1,783  3,604  4,106 
Interest and other income  915  7,056  869  3,625  4,071 
Total revenue and other income  386,201  272,657  183,195  352,106  396,556 
Purchases  258,488  174,912  117,093  252,983  294,399 
Production and manufacturing expenses  25,518  23,822  24,001  26,438  26,970 
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses  12,883  11,328  9,881  10,493  11,360 
Research and development  1,075  815  907  962  986 
Exploration  1,712  1,423  1,747  2,354  1,340 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  18,529  26,921  52,444  28,701  22,135 
Interest expense  3,181  3,607  4,089  4,690  3,745 
Total expenditure  321,386  242,828  210,162  326,621  360,935 
Income/(loss) before taxation  64,815  29,829  (26,967)  25,485  35,621 
Taxation (credit)/charge  21,941  9,199  (5,433)  9,053  11,715 
Income/(loss) for the period  42,874  20,630  (21,534)  16,432  23,906 
Income attributable to non-controlling interest  565  529  146  590  554 
Income/(loss) attributable to Shell plc shareholders  42,309  20,101  (21,680)  15,842  23,352 
Basic earnings per share ($)  5.76  2.59  (2.78)  1.97  2.82 
Diluted earnings per share ($)  5.71  2.57  (2.78)  1.95  2.80 
Reconciliation of Income for the Period to CCS Earnings
$ million
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Income/(loss) attributable to Shell plc shareholders  42,309  20,101  (21,680)  15,842  23,352 
Income attributable to non-controlling interest  565  529  146  590  554 
Income/(loss) for the period  42,874  20,630  (21,534)  16,432  23,906 
Current cost of supplies adjustment  (1,312)  (3,148)  1,833  (605)  458 
Of which:
Attributable to Shell plc shareholders  (1,196)  (3,029)  1,759  (572)  481 
Attributable to non-controlling interest  (116)  (119)  74  (33)  (23) 
CCS earnings  41,562  17,482  (19,701)  15,827  24,364 
Of which:
Attributable to Shell plc shareholders  41,113  17,072  (19,921)  15,270  23,833 
Attributable to non-controlling interest  449  410  220 557 531
Taxation Charge/(Credit)
$ million unless indicated
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Current tax  15,436  6,535  3,216  7,596  10,475 
Deferred tax  6,505  2,664  (8,649)  1,457  1,240 
Total taxation charge/(credit)  21,941  9,199  (5,433)  9,053  11,715 
As a % of income before taxation  3 4  %  3 1  %  2 0  %  3 6  %  3 3  %
Additional Information
Appendix 2
388 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
388
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
$ million
Dec 31, 2022 Dec 31, 2021 Dec 31, 2020 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill [A]  16,039  14,920  14,039  14,205  13,716 
Other intangible assets [A]  9,662  9,773  8,671  9,281  9,870 
Property, plant and equipment  198,642  194,932  209,700  238,349  223,175 
Joint ventures and associates  23,864  23,415  22,451  22,808  25,329 
Investments in securities  3,362  3,797  3,222  2,989  3,074 
Deferred tax  7,815  12,426  16,311  10,524  12,097 
Retirement benefits  10,200  8,471  2,474  4,717  6,051 
Trade and other receivables  6,920  7,065  7,641  8,085  7,826 
Derivative financial instruments  582  815  2,805  689  574 
 277,086  275,614  287,314  311,647  301,712 
Current assets
Inventories  31,894  25,258  19,457  24,071  21,117 
Trade and other receivables  66,510  53,208  33,625  43,414  42,431 
Derivative financial instruments  24,437  11,369  5,783  7,149  7,193 
Cash and cash equivalents  40,246  36,970  31,830  18,055  26,741 
 163,087  126,805  90,695  92,689  97,482 
Assets classified as held for sale [B]  2,851  1,960  1,259  —  — 
 165,938  128,765  91,954  —  — 
Total assets  443,024  404,379  379,268  404,336  399,194 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Debt  74,794  80,868  91,115  81,360  66,690 
Trade and other payables  3,432  2,075  2,304  2,342  2,735 
Derivative financial instruments  3,563  887  420  1,209  1,399 
Deferred tax  16,186  12,547  10,463  14,522  14,837 
Retirement benefits  7,296  11,325  15,605  13,436  12,104 
Decommissioning and other provisions  23,845  25,804  27,116  21,799  21,533 
 129,116  133,506  147,023  134,668  119,298 
Current liabilities
Debt  9,001  8,218  16,899  15,064  10,134 
Trade and other payables  79,357  63,173  44,572  52,423  52,395 
Derivative financial instruments  23,779  16,311  5,308  5,429  7,184 
Income taxes payable  4,869  3,254  3,111  3,478  3,990 
Decommissioning and other provisions  2,910  3,338  3,622  2,811  3,659 
 119,916  94,294  73,512  79,205  77,362 
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale [B]  1,395  1,253  196  —  — 
 121,311  95,547  73,708  —  — 
Total liabilities  250,427  229,053  220,731  213,873  196,660 
Equity
Share capital  584  641  651  657  685 
Shares held in trust  (726)  (610)  (709)  (1,063)  (1,260) 
Other reserves  21,132  18,909  12,752  14,451  16,615 
Retained earnings  169,482  153,026  142,616  172,431  182,606 
Equity attributable to Shell plc shareholders  190,472  171,966  155,310  186,476  198,646 
Non-controlling interest  2,125  3,360  3,227  3,987  3,888 
Total equity  192,597  175,326  158,537  190,463  202,534 
Total liabilities and equity  443,024  404,379  379,268  404,336  399,194 
[A] Goodwill, previously presented under Intangible assets is separately presented as from 2022. Prior period comparatives have been revised to conform with current year presentation.
[B] As from year 2021, 'Assets held for sale' and 'Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale' are presented separately. Comparatives, prior to year 2020, have not been revised. 
Additional Information | Appendix 2
Five-year financial data set continued
389 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
389
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 
$ million
 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Income/(loss) before taxation for the period  64,815  29,829  (26,967)  25,485  35,621 
Adjustment for:
Interest expense (net)  2,135  3,096  3,316  3,705  2,878 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation  18,529  26,921  52,444  28,701  22,135 
Exploration well write-offs  881  639  815  1,218  449 
Net gains on sale and revaluation of non-current assets and businesses  (642)  (5,995)  (286)  (2,519)  (3,265) 
Share of profit of joint ventures and associates  (3,972)  (4,097)  (1,783)  (3,604)  (4,106) 
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates  4,398  3,929  2,591  4,139  4,903 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories  (8,360)  (7,319)  4,477  (2,635)  2,823 
(Increase)/decrease in current receivables  (8,989)  (20,567)  9,625  (921)  1,955 
Increase/(decrease) in current payables  11,915  17,519  (9,494)  (1,223)  (1,336) 
Derivative financial instruments  (2,619)  5,882  977  (1,484)  799 
Retirement benefits  417  16  568  (365)  390 
Decommissioning and other provisions  35  (76)  1,104  (686)  (1,754) 
Other  2,991  803  8  (28)  1,264 
Tax paid  (13,120)  (5,476)  (3,290)  (7,605)  (9,671) 
Cash flow from operating activities  68,414  45,104  34,105  42,178  53,085 
Capital expenditure  (22,600)  (19,000)  (16,585)  (22,971)  (23,011) 
Investments in joint ventures and associates  (1,973)  (479)  (1,024)  (743)  (880) 
Investment in equity securities  (260)  (218)  (218)  (205)  (187) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and businesses  1,431  14,233  2,489  4,803  4,366 
Proceeds from joint ventures and associates from sale, capital reduction and 
repayment of long-term loans  511  584  1,240  2,599  1,594 
Proceeds from sale of equity securities  117  296  281  469  4,505 
Interest received  906  423  532  911  823 
Other investing cash inflows  2,060  2,928  3,239  2,921  1,373 
Other investing cash outflows  (2,640)  (3,528)  (3,232)  (3,563)  (2,242) 
Cash flow from investing activities  (22,448)  (4,761)  (13,278)  (15,779)  (13,659) 
Net increase/(decrease) in debt with maturity period within three months  318  14  (63)  (308)  (396) 
Other debt:
New borrowings  269  1,791  23,033  11,185  3,977 
Repayments  (8,459)  (21,534)  (17,385)  (14,292)  (11,912) 
Interest paid  (3,677)  (4,014)  (4,105)  (4,649)  (3,574) 
Derivative financial instruments  (1,799)  (1,165)  1,157  (48)  — 
Change in non-controlling interest  (1,965)  19  (42)  —  678 
Cash dividends paid to:
Shell plc shareholders [A]  (7,405)  (6,253)  (7,424)  (15,198)  (15,675) 
Non-controlling interest  (206)  (348)  (311)  (537)  (584) 
Repurchases of shares  (18,437)  (2,889)  (1,702)  (10,188)  (3,947) 
Shares held in trust: net purchases and dividends received  (593)  (285)  (382)  (1,174)  (1,115) 
Cash flow from financing activities  (41,954)  (34,664)  (7,224)  (35,209)  (32,548) 
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  (736)  (539)  172  124  (449) 
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  3,276  5,140  13,775  (8,686)  6,429 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  36,970  31,830  18,055  26,741  20,312 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  40,246  36,970  31,830  18,055  26,741 
[A] Cash dividends paid represents the payment of net dividends (after deduction of withholding taxes where applicable) and payment of withholding taxes on dividends paid in the previous 
quarter. 
Additional Information | Appendix 2
Five-year financial data set continued
390 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
390
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Free Cash Flow and Organic Free Cash Flow
 
$ million
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Cash flow from operating activities  68,414  45,104  34,105  42,178  53,085 
Cash flow from investing activities  (22,448)  (4,761)  (13,278)  (15,779)  (13,659) 
Free cash flow  45,965  40,343  20,828  26,399  39,426 
Less: Cash inflows related to divestments
 
[A]  2,059  15,113  4,010  7,871  10,465 
Add: Tax paid on divestments  17  188  —  187  482 
Add: Cash outflows related to inorganic capital expenditure
 
[B]  4,205  1,658  817  1,400  1,740 
Organic free cash flow  48,128  27,076  17,634  20,116  31,183 
[A] Cash inflows related to divestments includes Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and businesses, Proceeds from joint ventures and associates from sale, capital reduction and 
repayment of long-term loans, and Proceeds from sale of equity securities as reported in the "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows".
[B] Cash outflows related to inorganic capital expenditure includes portfolio actions which expand Shell's activities through acquisitions and restructuring activities as reported in capital 
expenditure lines in the "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows". 
Return on Average Capital Employed
 
$ million unless indicated
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Income for the period  42,874  20,630  (21,534)  16,432  23,906 
Interest expense after tax  2,290  2,741  2,822  3,024  2,513 
Income before interest expense  45,164  23,371  (18,712)  19,456  26,419 
Capital employed - opening  264,413  266,551  286,887  295,398  283,477 
Capital employed - closing  276,392  264,413  266,551  286,887  279,358 
Capital employed - average  270,402  265,482  276,719  291,142  281,417 
ROACE  16.7 %  8.8 %  (6.8) %  6 . 7  %  9 . 4  %
Gearing
 
$ million unless indicated
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Current debt  9,001  8,218  16,899  15,064  10,134 
Non-current debt  74,794  80,868  91,115  81,360  66,690 
Total debt [A]  83,795  89,086  108,014  96,424  76,824 
Add: Debt-related derivative financial instruments: net liability/(asset)  3,071  424  (1,979)  701  1,273 
Add: Collateral on debt-related derivatives: net liability/(asset)  (1,783)  16  1,181  23  72 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents  (40,246) (36,970)  (31,830)  (18,055)  (26,741) 
Net debt [A]  44,837  52,556  75,386  79,093  51,428 
Add: Total equity [A]  192,597 175,326 158,537 190,463 202,534
Total capital [A]  237,434  227,882  233,923  269,556  253,962 
Gearing [A]  18.9 %  23.1 %  32.2 %  2 9 . 3  %  20.3 %
[A] Shell used the modified retrospective transition method for implementing IFRS 16 Leases, effective as of January 1, 2019. Comparative information was not restated, and continues to be 
presented as previously reported under IAS 17 Leases.
Additional Information | Appendix 2
Five-year financial data set continued
391 Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022
391
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

Notes
392
Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The Annual General Meeting will be held on May 23, 2023.
 
2022 Fourth 
quarter [A]
2023 First
quarter [B]
2023 Second 
quarter [B]
2023 Third 
quarter [B]
Results announcements February 2 May 4 July 27 November 2
Interim dividend timetable
Announcement date February 2 [C] May 4 July 27 November 2
Ex-dividend date for SHEL ADS [D] February 16 May 18 August 10 November 16
Ex-dividend date for SHEL ordinary shares February 16 May 18 August 10 November 16
Record date February 17 May 19 August 11 November 17
Closing of currency election date [E] March 3 June 5 August 25 December 1
Pounds sterling and euro equivalents announcement date March 13 June 12 September 4 December 11
Payment date March 27 June 26 September 18 December 20
[A] In respect of the financial year ended December 31, 2022.
[B] In respect of the financial year ended December 31, 2023.
[C] The Directors do not propose to recommend any further distribution in respect of 2022.
[D] The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), with effect from September 5, 2017, reduced the standard settlement cycle in accordance with the SEC amendments to Exchange Act Rule 
15c6-1(a). Under these rules, regular settlement will occur on a T+2 basis for trades occurring on or after the SEC’s implementation date of September 5, 2017. As a result SHEL ADSs 
traded on the NYSE markets will now settle in line with SHEL shares traded on European markets, who moved to a T+2 settlement basis for trades in 2014, resulting in the same ex-
dividend date for SHEL shares and SHEL ADSs. Record dates will not change. The timings of these are detailed above.
[E] A different currency election date may apply to shareholders holding shares in a securities account with a bank or financial institution ultimately through Euroclear Nederland. This may 
also apply to other shareholders who do not hold their shares either directly on the Register of Members or in the corporate sponsored nominee arrangement. Shareholders can contact 
their broker, financial intermediary, bank or financial institution for the election deadline that applies.
Contact Us
The best way to get in touch is via the "Contact us" section of the Shell website www.shell.com/investors. From here questions are properly 
directed to the Shell team that can assist. In addition, we have introduced an automated question response tool to assist with the most popular 
questions that we receive and reviewed and updated the "Frequently asked Questions" section of our website to provide the most time 
efficient information for our investors.
Registered Office and HQ
Shell plc
Shell Centre
London SE1 7NA
United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales
Company number 4366849
Shareholder Relations
Shell plc
Carel van Bylandtlaan 30
2596 HR The Hague
The Netherlands
or
Shell plc
Shell Centre
London SE1 7NA
United Kingdom
www.shell.com/investors
Investor Relations
Shell plc
PO Box 162
2501 AN The Hague
The Netherlands
or
Shell Oil Company
Investor Relations
150 N Dairy Ashford
Houston, TX 77079
USA
www.shell.com/investors
Share registration
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
0800 169 1679 
customer@equiniti.com
For online information about your holding
and to change the way you receive your
company documents:
www.shareview.co.uk
American Depositary Shares (ADSs)
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Shareowner Services
P.O. Box 64504
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504
USA
Overnight correspondence to:
Shareowner Services
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100
USA
+1 888 737 2377 (USA only)
+1 651 453 2128 (International)
Email: https://www.shareowneronline.com/
informational/contact-us/
www.adr.com/shareholder
Report ordering
www.shell.com/order
Annual Report/20-F service for
US residents
+1 888 301 0504
 
Financial calendar in 2023
vii Shell Annual Report and Accounts 2022

The Annual General Meeting will be held on May 23, 2023.
 
2022 Fourth 
quarter [A]
2023 First
quarter [B]
2023 Second 
quarter [B]
2023 Third 
quarter [B]
Results announcements February 2 May 4 July 27 November 2
Interim dividend timetable
Announcement date February 2 [C] May 4 July 27 November 2
Ex-dividend date for SHEL ADS [D] February 16 May 18 August 10 November 16
Ex-dividend date for SHEL ordinary shares February 16 May 18 August 10 November 16
Record date February 17 May 19 August 11 November 17
Closing of currency election date [E] March 3 June 5 August 25 December 1
Pounds sterling and euro equivalents announcement date March 13 June 12 September 4 December 11
Payment date March 27 June 26 September 18 December 20
[A] In respect of the financial year ended December 31, 2022.
[B] In respect of the financial year ended December 31, 2023.
[C] The Directors do not propose to recommend any further distribution in respect of 2022.
[D] The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), with effect from September 5, 2017, reduced the standard settlement cycle in accordance with the SEC amendments to Exchange Act Rule 
15c6-1(a). Under these rules, regular settlement will occur on a T+2 basis for trades occurring on or after the SEC’s implementation date of September 5, 2017. As a result SHEL ADSs 
traded on the NYSE markets will now settle in line with SHEL shares traded on European markets, who moved to a T+2 settlement basis for trades in 2014, resulting in the same ex-
dividend date for SHEL shares and SHEL ADSs. Record dates will not change. The timings of these are detailed above.
[E] A different currency election date may apply to shareholders holding shares in a securities account with a bank or financial institution ultimately through Euroclear Nederland. This may 
also apply to other shareholders who do not hold their shares either directly on the Register of Members or in the corporate sponsored nominee arrangement. Shareholders can contact 
their broker, financial intermediary, bank or financial institution for the election deadline that applies.
Contact Us
The best way to get in touch is via the "Contact us" section of the Shell website www.shell.com/investors. From here questions are properly 
directed to the Shell team that can assist. In addition, we have introduced an automated question response tool to assist with the most popular 
questions that we receive and reviewed and updated the "Frequently asked Questions" section of our website to provide the most time 
efficient information for our investors.
Registered Office and HQ
Shell plc
Shell Centre
London SE1 7NA
United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales
Company number 4366849
Shareholder Relations
Shell plc
Carel van Bylandtlaan 30
2596 HR The Hague
The Netherlands
or
Shell plc
Shell Centre
London SE1 7NA
United Kingdom
www.shell.com/investors
Investor Relations
Shell plc
PO Box 162
2501 AN The Hague
The Netherlands
or
Shell Oil Company
Investor Relations
150 N Dairy Ashford
Houston, TX 77079
USA
www.shell.com/investors
Share registration
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
0800 169 1679 
customer@equiniti.com
For online information about your holding
and to change the way you receive your
company documents:
www.shareview.co.uk
American Depositary Shares (ADSs)
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Shareowner Services
P.O. Box 64504
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504
USA
Overnight correspondence to:
Shareowner Services
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100
USA
+1 888 737 2377 (USA only)
+1 651 453 2128 (International)
Email: https://www.shareowneronline.com/
informational/contact-us/
www.adr.com/shareholder
Report ordering
www.shell.com/order
Annual Report/20-F service for
US residents
+1 888 301 0504
 
Financial calendar in 2023
Check our latest news
 Follow @Shell on Twitter
 www.facebook.com/shell
 linkedin.com/company/shell
All our reports are available online at
Shell.com/annual-publications
 ■ Comprehensive financial information 
on our activities throughout 2022
 ■ Detailed information on Shell’s taxes
 ■ Report on our progress in contributing 
to sustainable development
 ■ Report on how Shell has progressed 
with its energy transition
@Shell
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2022Shell plc
