--- Page 1 ---
2018
NVIDIA CORPORATION
ANNUAL REVIEW
NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING
PROXY STATEMENT 
FORM 10-K

--- Page 2 ---
GPUS ARE 
POWERING SOME 
OF THE HOTTEST 
TRENDS NOW 
AND FOR 
DECADES 
TO COME.
YAHOO FINANCE
Scientists using GPU computing were 
able to “see” gravitational waves for 
the first time in human history.

--- Page 3 ---
Jensen Huang
CEO and Founder, NVIDIA
Twenty-five years ago, we set out to 
transform computer graphics. Fueled 
by the massive growth of the gaming 
market and its insatiable demand for 
better 3D graphics, we’ve evolved the 
GPU into a computer brain at the 
intersection of virtual reality, high 
performance computing, and artificial 
intelligence. NVIDIA GPU computing 
has become the essential tool of the 
da Vincis and Einsteins of our time. 
For them, we’ve built the equivalent 
of a time machine.

--- Page 4 ---
Hellblade: Senua’s Sacrifice, as captured 
by NVIDIA Ansel, a powerful in-game 
camera that lets users take professional-
grade photographs of their games.

--- Page 5 ---
At $100 billion, computer gaming is 
the world’s largest entertainment 
industry. And with 200 million gamers, 
NVIDIA GeForce is its largest platform. 
We continuously innovate across the 
GeForce platform, from GeForce GTX 
GPUs to GeForce Experience, and in 
new technologies like Max-Q that make 
gaming laptops thinner, quieter and  
faster. And we’re opening high-end 
gaming and blockbuster titles to millions 
of users for the first time with NVIDIA 
GeForce NOW, a cloud-based service 
that turns everyday PC and Mac laptops 
into virtual GeForce gaming machines.
NVIDIA GEFORCE 
HAS MOVED FROM 
GRAPHICS CARD 
TO GAMING 
PLATFORM.
FORBES

--- Page 6 ---
NVIDIA’S LATEST TECH 
IS HERE TO BLOW 
POSSIBILITIES OF 
VR WIDE OPEN.
ALPHR
NVIDIA’s decades-long leadership in 
computer graphics continues its push  
into the future with NVIDIA Holodeck, 
a photorealistic, collaborative VR 
environment that incorporates the feeling 
of real-world presence through sight, 
sound, and haptics. It allows creators 
to import high-fidelity, full-resolution 
models into VR to collaborate and 
share with colleagues or friends.  
A future where we create nearly 
everything in a virtual world is 
on the near horizon.

--- Page 7 ---


--- Page 8 ---
Artificial intelligence is the use of computers 
to simulate human intelligence. AI amplifies 
our cognitive abilities, letting us solve 
problems where the complexity is too 
great, the information is incomplete,  
or the details are too subtle and require 
expert training.
Learning from data—a computer’s  
version of life experience—is how AI 
evolves. GPU computing powers the 
computation required for deep neural 
networks to learn to recognize patterns 
from massive amounts of data (like 
identifying more than 7000 flower types 
per second). This new computing model 
sparked the AI era and will infuse 
intelligence into trillions of computing 
devices and be the single largest 
opportunity the industry has ever 
known. We expect AI to spur a wave 
of social progress unmatched since 
the industrial revolution.
NVIDIA Volta, the world’s most powerful 
GPU computing architecture, was built  
to  drive the next wave of AI and HPC.  
Every major cloud service provider  
now offers Volta instances, and  
every major computer maker  
offers Volta-based servers for  
on-premise data centers.
NVIDIA HAS EMERGED 
AS THE DE FACTO 
STANDARD IN AI.
MARKETWATCH

--- Page 9 ---


--- Page 10 ---


--- Page 11 ---
NVIDIA IS TAKING 
THE AUTO INDUSTRY 
BY STORM.
U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT
Autonomous vehicles will modernize the $10 trillion transportation 
industry—making our roads safer and our cities more efficient. 
NVIDIA DRIVE is a scalable AI car platform that spans the entire 
range of autonomous driving, from traffic-jam pilots to robotaxis. 
More than 320 companies have adopted NVIDIA DRIVE technology 
in their data centers and vehicles. They range from car companies 
and suppliers, to mapping and sensor companies, to startups and 
research organizations.
NVIDIA DRIVE PX Pegasus 
will enable Level 5 
driverless vehicles.  
A supercomputer the size 
of a license plate, Pegasus 
delivers 320 TOPS of deep 
learning performance.

--- Page 12 ---
DEAR NVIDIANS AND STAKEHOLDERS,
GPU COMPUTING 
HAS TAKEN HOLD.
What began 25 years ago with our work in 
computer graphics has evolved to address 
some of the most important technological 
trends the world has ever seen. From 
gaming to AI and from self-driving cars 
to supercomputers, we approach all of 
our work and exploration with a common 
philosophy: focus on the hardest problems 
that only we can solve. We’re enabling 
the most demanding computer users 
in the world—scientists, designers,  
artists, and gamers—to do their life’s 
work. Our computers let them create 
and see the future. To them, NVIDIA 
has built a time machine.

--- Page 13 ---
Revenue for the year was up 41% to reach 
a record $9.71 billion, and gross margins 
expanded to 59.9%. GAAP earnings per 
share were $4.82, up 88%. And we 
returned $1.25 billion to shareholders 
through dividends and stock repurchases.
Our gaming business grew 36% this year 
to a record $5.51 billion. Gaming will be 
the world’s largest entertainment medium 
someday, with ever-expanding genres, 
rich characters and stories, and incredible 
production values. Gaming can be a sport, 
an adventure, a puzzle, a battle, or just a 
way to connect with friends in a virtual 
world. Gaming is essentially virtual reality 
and the possibilities are endless. We 
extended our leadership in gaming with 
new innovations like Max-Q, a design 
approach to make GeForce gaming laptops 
amazingly thin and quiet; GeForce 
Experience ShadowPlay Highlights, which 
automatically records and shares players’ 
heroic moments; and GeForce NOW, a 
cloud-based service that turns ordinary 
laptops into powerful gaming machines.
NVIDIA is the largest computer graphics 
company in the world, seeing double-digit 
growth in our professional visualization 
business and advancing the ﬁeld with 
our introduction of the Holodeck virtual 
reality design studio. We imagine a future 
where products will be entirely designed 
in Holodeck, with collaborators beaming 
in from remote locations as artiﬁcial 
intelligence robots assist them. For 
the 10th consecutive year, every movie 
nominated for Best Visual Effects at 
the Academy Awards was created 
using NVIDIA.
AI fueled our datacenter business, 
which grew 133% to reach $1.93 billion. 
In the near future, software development 
will require large supercomputers that 
are continuously training software to be 
smarter and do more. The AI software 
stack is essentially a giant learning 
machine running software that writes 
new software. Volta is the ﬁrst GPU 
created for these AI supercomputers, 
and it reduces the learning cycle from 
days to hours. Its new Tensor Core 
architecture boosts deep learning 
performance by almost 10 times.
Volta-based Tesla V100 accelerators 
are now available through every major 
computer maker and have been chosen 
by every major cloud service provider 
to deliver AI and high-performance 
computing. We also introduced the 
breakthrough TensorRT3 neural machine 
optimizing compiler to deploy trained 
models at gigantic scale in cloud 
datacenters. The combination of NVIDIA 
Tesla V100 and TensorRT lets AI 
developers use the NVIDIA architecture 
from end-to-end for fast training and 
cloud-scale deployment.
Someday, every car will be autonomous. 
Machines that move—from cars, taxis, 
trucks, shuttles, delivery bots, and 
drones, to agriculture and construction 
equipment—will operate autonomously 
or help drivers operate more safely and 
easily. We created the NVIDIA DRIVE 
autonomous vehicle platform to enable 
the $10 trillion transportation industry 
to realize this future. Doing this at a global 
scale is an incredible challenge—one 
that NVIDIA is perfectly suited to tackle. 
We create the autonomous car computer, 
the “brains” of the vehicle, from processor 
to AI and robotics software. We create 
the development environment, from 
AI training to virtual reality driving 
simulation. NVIDIA DRIVE is the most 
complex computer system we have ever 
built, and NVIDIA builds the most complex 
computer systems in the world. Solving 
this challenge will greatly beneﬁt society. 
In all, more than 320 automakers, ride-
hailing services, startups, mapping 
companies, sensor makers, and research 
universities—in every geography—have 
adopted NVIDIA DRIVE to build the 
autonomous future.
OUR COMPANY IS AT THE EPICENTER OF THE 
MOST PROMISING ADVANCEMENTS OF OUR AGE
$0
$3
$6
$9
$12
FY18FY17
$9.71 B
+41%
REVENUE
in Billions
56%
57%
58%
59%
60%
61%
FY18FY17
59.9%
+110 bps
GROSS MARGINS
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
FY18FY17
33.0%
+500 bps
OPERATING MARGINS
$0
$1
$2
$3
$4
$5
FY18FY17
$4.82
+88%
EPS
GAAP results

--- Page 14 ---
Our ultimate purpose is to build a 
company that makes a great and positive 
impact on the world. We strive to make 
singular and valuable contributions to 
human progress. We play the long game, 
balancing short-term profits and the 
dream of building a wonderful future. We 
take pride in our social and environmental 
responsibility. But beyond responsibility, 
we are truly joyed and privileged to care 
for our employees and families, our 
partners, and our communities who make 
it possible for us to do our life’s work.
Our company regularly receives top 
marks on prominent lists of the most 
socially and environmentally responsible 
companies, including Fortune’s Best 
Places to Work, the Corporate Equality 
Index, and the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index. We debuted in Fiscal Year 2018 on 
the Global100 and Bloomberg’s Gender 
Equality Index.
We innovate to conserve energy in 
everything we do. To improve the 
environment as we expand, we designed 
our corporate headquarters building  
to use natural light while moderating 
the need for cooling. The GPU computing 
technology we pioneered can improve 
energy efficiency by 10 times for 
datacenters that are consuming electricity 
at the rate of many cities. Our work in 
self-driving cars could be our largest 
contribution to the environment in the 
long term, as autonomous driving 
increases the utilization of cars and 
reduces overall energy consumption  
and carbon emissions.
Within NVIDIA, we believe a diverse, 
inclusive culture enables us to innovate, 
create groundbreaking products, and 
build one of the world’s great technology 
companies. It all starts with attracting 
diverse talent and creating an environment 
where the best people can do their life’s 
work. We want to create a company where 
great people can enrich their lives and 
build their families. This year, we greatly 
expanded our parenting benefits to  
fund adoptions, in vitro fertilization,  
and egg freezing.
We have more than 40 offices around the 
world and are grateful for the support 
of these local communities. NVIDIANs 
are passionate about giving back to 
their communities, with a long history 
of volunteerism and strong support for 
fighting cancer and improving education. 
Our philanthropic giving this year, which 
includes charitable contributions and 
community partnerships, exceeded  
$6 million.
Our fully employee-governed NVIDIA 
Foundation invested more than $4 
million to advance the fight against 
cancer through its Compute the Cure 
initiative. And last year, our employees 
raised more than $550,000 for cancer 
organizations around the world.
Our new Techsplorer program, launched 
at GTC 2017, introduces underserved 
youth to AI through hands-on design 
challenges and encourages them to 
explore STEM careers. We’ve already 
reached nearly 2,500 students near 
our Silicon Valley headquarters.
Twenty-five years ago we set out to solve 
3D graphics and virtual reality for video 
games, because it would be one of the 
great, and fun, computing challenges of 
all time. We believed it would lead us to 
discover new technologies and build an 
engineering machine of great capability. 
We were right. The challenges of 
simulating the virtual worlds of video 
games share much in common with the 
challenges a scientist faces in simulating 
molecules or discovering new materials.
Today, we’ve greatly advanced this new 
computing model called GPU computing. 
It stands at the intersection of computer 
graphics, high performance computing, 
and AI—technologies that promise to 
fundamentally reshape trillion-dollar 
industries like transportation, healthcare, 
and manufacturing, and foster entirely 
new industries that are just taking root. 
We have a responsibility to make sure that 
we keep this platform vibrant and make 
it available to all. The responsibility of 
carrying that torch is deeply ingrained in 
the people who make up NVIDIA, and the 
success we’ve had to-date reminds us of 
the importance of our work and fuels our 
path to the next grand challenge.
It’s going to be an incredible ride.
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES GRAND CHALLENGES
Jensen Huang  
CEO and Founder, NVIDIA 
April 2018


--- Page 15 ---
       NVIDIA CORPORATION NOTICE OF 2018 ANNUAL MEETING PROXY STATEMENT AND FORM 10-K        FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  Certain statements in this document including, but not limited to, statements as to: the impact, benefits, abilities and performance of our products and technologies; GPUs powering the hottest trends for decades to come; a future where we create nearly everything in a virtual world being on the near horizon; GPU computing and AI infusing intelligence into trillions of computing devices and being the single largest opportunity of the industry; AI spurring unmatched social progress; the impact, benefits and market opportunity of AI and autonomous vehicles; gaming as the world’s largest entertainment medium someday; software development requiring large supercomputers in the future; every car being autonomous someday and machines that move operating autonomously or helping drivers operate more safely and easily; the impact of solving the autonomous driving challenge; and our market position and strategies are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of new products and technologies or enhancements to our existing products and technologies; market acceptance of our products or our partners’ products; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-K for the fiscal period ended January 28, 2018. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the company’s website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of April 6, 2018, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. 

--- Page 16 ---
NOTICE OF 2018 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
Date and time: Wednesday, May 16, 2018 at 10:30 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time
Location: Online at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVIDIA2018
Items of business: • Election of eleven directors nominated by the Board of Directors
• Approval of our executive compensation
• Ratification of the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered 
public accounting firm for fiscal year 2019
• Approval of an amendment and restatement of our Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan
• Approval of an amendment and restatement of our Amended and Restated 2012 Employee 
Stock Purchase Plan
Transaction of other business properly brought before the meeting
Record date: You can attend, and vote at, the annual meeting if you were a stockholder of record at the close
of business on March 22, 2018.
Virtual meeting
admission:
We will be holding our annual meeting online only this year at
www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVIDIA2018.  To participate in the annual meeting, you
will need the control number included on your notice of proxy materials or printed proxy card.
Pre-meeting forum: In order to allow for communication with our stockholders in connection with the 2018 Meeting,
we have established a pre-meeting forum located at www.proxyvote.com where you can submit
questions to us in advance of the 2018 Meeting.
Your vote is very important.  Whether or not you plan to attend the virtual meeting, PLEASE VOTE YOUR SHARES.  As an 
alternative to voting online at the meeting, you may vote via the Internet, by telephone or, if you receive a paper proxy 
card in the mail, by mailing the completed proxy card.
Important notice regarding the availability of proxy materials for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on 
May 16, 2018.  This Notice, our Proxy Statement, our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Annual Review are available 
at www.nvidia.com/proxy.
By Order of the Board of Directors 
Timothy S. Teter 
Secretary
Santa Clara, California
April 6, 2018

--- Page 17 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
DEFINITIONS
PROXY SUMMARY
PROXY STATEMENT
Information About the Meeting
Proposal 1—Election of Directors
Director Qualifications and Nomination of Directors
Our Director Nominees
Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate Governance
Independence of the Members of the Board of Directors
Board Leadership Structure
Role of the Board in Risk Oversight
Corporate Governance Policies of the Board of Directors
Stockholder Communications with the Board of Directors
Majority Vote Standard
Board Meeting Information
Committees of the Board of Directors
Director Compensation
Review of Transactions with Related Persons
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
Proposal 2—Approval of Executive Compensation
Executive Compensation
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
Risk Analysis of Our Compensation Plans
Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016
Grants of Plan-Based Awards For Fiscal 2018
Outstanding Equity Awards as of January 28, 2018
Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Fiscal 2018
Employment, Severance and Change-in-Control Arrangements
Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control
Pay Ratio
Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation
Compensation Committee Report
Proposal 3—Ratification of Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for Fiscal 2019
Fees Billed by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors
Equity Compensation Plan Information
Proposal 4—Approval of an Amendment and Restatement of our Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan
Proposal 5—Approval of an Amendment and Restatement of our Amended and Restated 2012 Employee 
Stock Purchase Plan
Additional Information
Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance
Other Matters
APPENDIX A—Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan
APPENDIX B—Amended and Restated 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
1
2
5
5
8
9
10
16
16
16
16
17
18
18
18
19
21
23
24
26
27
27
39
40
41
42
44
44
45
46
46
46
47
48
49
50
51
63
68
68
68
A-1
B-1

--- Page 18 ---
1
DEFINITIONS
2007 Plan NVIDIA Corporation Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan
2012 ESPP NVIDIA Corporation Amended and Restated 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
AC Audit Committee
Base Operating Plan Target performance goal under the Variable Cash Plan, SY PSUs and MY PSUs
Board The Company’s Board of Directors
CC Compensation Committee
CD&A Compensation Discussion and Analysis
CEO Chief Executive Officer
CFO Chief Financial Officer
Company NVIDIA Corporation, a Delaware corporation
Control Number Identification number for each stockholder included in Notice or proxy card
Dodd Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
Exequity Exequity LLP, the CC’s independent compensation consultant
FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board
Fiscal 2017 The Company’s fiscal year 2017 (February 1, 2016 to January 29, 2017)
Fiscal 2018 The Company’s fiscal year 2018 (January 30, 2017 to January 28, 2018)
Fiscal 2019 The Company’s fiscal year 2019 (January 29, 2018 to January 27, 2019)
Form 10-K The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2018 filed with the SEC on February 28, 2018
GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles
Internal Revenue Code U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
Lead Director Lead independent director
Meeting Annual Meeting of Stockholders
MY PSUs PSUs with a three-year performance metric
NASDAQ The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
NCGC Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
NEOs Named Executive Officers consisting of our CEO, our CFO, and our other three most highly compensated 
executive officers as of the end of Fiscal 2018
Non-GAAP Operating
Income
GAAP operating income adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition-related costs, 
contributions, legal settlement costs, and restructuring and other charges, as the Company reports in its 
respective earnings materials.  The net aggregate adjustment to GAAP operating income for these items for 
Fiscal 2018 was $407 million and for Fiscal 2017 was $287 million.  Please see Reconciliation of Non-GAAP 
Financial Measures in our CD&A for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP measures and GAAP results
Notice Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials
NYSE New York Stock Exchange
Other NEOs Colette M. Kress, Ajay K. Puri, and Debora Shoquist
Proposed 2007 Plan The 2007 Plan, as proposed to be amended and restated
Proposed 2012 ESPP The 2012 ESPP, as proposed to be amended and restated
PSUs Performance stock units
PwC PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
RSUs Restricted stock units
S&P 500 Standard & Poor’s 500 Composite Index
SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended
Stretch Operating
Plan
Performance goal necessary to earn the maximum award under the Variable Cash Plan and for the
maximum number of SY PSUs and MY PSUs becoming eligible to vest
SY PSUs PSUs with a single-year performance metric, vesting over four years
Threshold Minimum performance goal necessary to earn an award under the Variable Cash Plan and for SY PSUs and
MY PSUs to become eligible to vest
TSR Total shareholder return
Variable Cash Plan The Company’s variable cash compensation plan

--- Page 19 ---
2
PROXY SUMMARY
This summary highlights information contained elsewhere in the proxy statement.  This summary does not contain all of 
the information that you should consider, and you should read the entire proxy statement carefully before voting.
2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
Date and time: Wednesday, May 16, 2018 at 10:30 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time
Location: Online at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVIDIA2018
Record date: Stockholders as of March 22, 2018 are entitled to vote
Admission to meeting: You will need your Control Number to attend the annual meeting
Voting Matters and Board Recommendations
A summary of the 2018 Meeting proposals is below.  Every stockholder’s vote is important. Our Board urges you to vote 
your shares FOR each of the proposals. 
Matter Page
Board
Recommendation
Vote Required 
for Approval
Effect of
Abstentions
Effect of Broker Non-
Votes
Management Proposals:
Election of eleven directors FOR each director 
nominee
More FOR than 
WITHHOLD votes None None
Approval of our executive compensation FOR Majority of
shares present Against None
Ratification of selection of PwC as our
independent registered public
accounting firm for Fiscal 2019
FOR Majority of
shares present Against None
Approval of an amendment and
restatement of our 2007 Plan FOR Majority of
shares present Against None
Approval of an amendment and
restatement of our 2012 ESPP FOR Majority of
shares present Against None
Election of Directors (Proposal 1)
The following table provides summary information about each director nominee:
Name Age
Director
Since Occupation
Financial
Expert
Committee
Membership
Effective
March 2018
Robert K. Burgess 60 2011 Independent Consultant
 CC
Tench Coxe 60 1993 Managing Director, Sutter Hill Ventures CC
Persis S. Drell 62 2015 Provost, Stanford University CC
James C. Gaither 80 1998 Managing Director, Sutter Hill Ventures NCGC
Jen-Hsun Huang 55 1993 President & CEO, NVIDIA Corporation
Dawn Hudson 60 2013 Chief Marketing Officer, National Football League
 AC
Harvey C. Jones 65 1993 Managing Partner, Square Wave Ventures
 CC, NCGC
Michael G. McCaffery 64 2015 Chairman & Managing Director, Makena Capital
Management
AC
Mark L. Perry (1) 62 2005 Independent Consultant
 AC, NCGC
A. Brooke Seawell 70 1997 Venture Partner, New Enterprise Associates
 CC
Mark A. Stevens 58 2008 (2) Managing Partner, S-Cubed Capital AC, NCGC
(1)  Lead Director
(2)  Mr. Stevens previously served as a member of our Board from 1993 until 2006
8
26
47
51
63

--- Page 20 ---
3
Board Overview and Recent Refreshment
Our director nominees exhibit a variety of competencies, professional experience and backgrounds, and contribute diverse 
viewpoints and perspectives to our well-rounded Board.  While the Board benefits from the extensive experience and 
institutional knowledge that our longer-serving directors bring, it has also brought in new perspectives and ideas by 
appointing three new directors in the last five years.  Below are the skills and competencies that our NCGC and Board 
consider important for our directors to have in light of our current business, and the number of directors that possess these 
competencies: 
Corporate Governance Highlights
Our Board is committed to strong corporate governance, which is used to promote the long-term interest of NVIDIA and 
our stockholders.  We seek a collaborative approach to stockholder issues that affect our business and to ensure that our 
stockholders see our governance and executive pay practices as well-structured.  Last year, our management contacted 
our top 30 institutional stockholders (except for brokerage firms and institutional stockholders who we know do not engage 
in individual conversations with companies), representing an aggregate ownership of 48%, to gain valuable insights into 
their views on corporate governance, executive compensation and corporate social responsibility issues.  We met with 
stockholders holding in total 33% of our common stock in the Fall of 2017. A member of our Board attended these meetings.  
Highlights of our corporate governance practices include:  
Proxy access
Declassified Board
Majority voting for directors
Active Board oversight of risk and risk management
Stock ownership guidelines for our directors and 
executive officers
75% or greater attendance by each Board member at 
meetings of the Board and applicable committees*
Independent Lead Director
All Board members independent, except for our CEO
At least annual Board and committee self-assessments
Annual stockholder outreach, including NCGC 
participation
Independent directors frequently meet in executive 
sessions
*  With the exception of William J. Miller, whose attendance fell below 75% due to illness.  Mr. Miller passed away in December 2017.
Approval of Executive Compensation for Fiscal 2018 (Proposal 2)
We are asking our stockholders to cast a non-binding vote, also known as “say-on-pay,” to approve our NEOs’ compensation. 
The Board believes that our compensation policies and practices are effective in achieving our goals of attracting, motivating 
and retaining a high-caliber executive team; rewarding financial and operating performance; and aligning our executives’ 
interests with those of our stockholders to create long-term value. The Board and our stockholders have approved annual 
“say-on-pay” votes. 

--- Page 21 ---
4
Executive Compensation Highlights
Our executive compensation program is designed to pay for performance.  We utilize compensation elements that strongly 
align our NEOs’ interests with those of our stockholders to create long-term value.  Our NEO pay is heavily weighted toward 
performance-based, “at-risk” variable cash and long-term equity awards that are only earned if we achieve pre-established 
corporate financial metrics.  
At our 2017 Meeting, over 97% of the votes cast on our say-on-pay proposal were in support of the compensation paid to 
our NEOs for Fiscal 2017.  After considering this advisory vote and feedback from our annual stockholder outreach, our CC 
concluded that our program effectively aligned executive pay with stockholder interests.  Therefore, the CC maintained the 
same general compensation structure and made refinements for Fiscal 2018 to strengthen the link between corporate 
performance and NEO pay even further, including increasing the proportion of NEO compensation that is at-risk and 
performance-based. 
Fiscal 2018 Financial Highlights
Starting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the GPU to solve some of the most complex problems in computer 
science.  We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of artificial intelligence.   Our platform strategy 
combines hardware, system software, programmable algorithms, libraries, systems, and services to create unique value 
for the Gaming, Professional Visualization, Datacenter, and Automotive markets.  For Fiscal 2018, NVIDIA’s TSR was 119% 
and we reported record revenue of $9.71 billion and record Non-GAAP Operating Income of $3.62 billion.  
Please see Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in our CD&A for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP measures and GAAP results.
Ratification of Selection of PwC as our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for Fiscal 2019 (Proposal 3)
We are asking our stockholders to ratify the AC’s selection of PwC as our independent registered public accounting firm 
for Fiscal 2019. We are not required to have our stockholders ratify the selection of PwC, but we are doing so because we 
believe it is a matter of good corporate practice. If our stockholders do not ratify the selection, the AC will reconsider the 
appointment, but may nevertheless retain PwC as our independent registered public accounting firm. Even if the selection 
is ratified, the AC may select a different independent registered public accounting firm at any time if it determines that such 
a change would be in the best interests of NVIDIA and our stockholders.
Approval of an Amendment and Restatement of our 2007 Plan (Proposal 4)
We are asking our stockholders to approve an amendment and restatement of our 2007 Plan primarily to increase the 
share reserve by 23,000,000 shares and to impose a minimum vesting requirement of 12 months from the date of grant 
on all awards under the Proposed 2007 Plan.  The Board recommends a vote FOR this proposal because equity awards are 
an important component of our compensation program and the continued ability to issue these awards is essential to 
attracting, retaining and motivating our employees.
Approval of an Amendment and Restatement of our 2012 ESPP (Proposal 5)
We are asking our stockholders to approve an amendment and restatement of our 2012 ESPP to increase the share reserve 
by 13,500,000 shares.  The Board recommends a vote FOR this proposal because our employee stock purchase program 
is an important employee benefit and is essential to attracting, retaining and motivating our employees.

--- Page 22 ---
5
NVIDIA CORPORATION
2788 SAN TOMAS EXPRESSWAY
SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051
(408) 486-2000
  ____________________________________________________
PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE 2018 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS - MAY 16, 2018
____________________________________________________
INFORMATION ABOUT THE MEETING
Your proxy is being solicited for use at the 2018 Meeting on behalf of the Board.  Our 2018 Meeting will take place on 
Wednesday, May 16, 2018 at 10:30 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time. 
Meeting Attendance
If you were an NVIDIA stockholder as of the close of business on the March 22, 2018 record date, or if you hold a valid proxy, 
you can attend, ask questions during, and vote at our 2018 Meeting at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVIDIA2018.  
Our 2018 Meeting will be held entirely online to allow greater participation and provide cost savings for our stockholders 
and NVIDIA.  
In order to allow for communication with our stockholders in connection with the 2018 Annual Meeting, we have established 
a pre-meeting forum located at www.proxyvote.com where you can submit questions to us in advance of the 2018 Meeting.  
You will need the Control Number included on your Notice or printed proxy card to enter the meeting and the pre-meeting 
forum. 
Non-stockholders can also listen to the 2018 Meeting live at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVIDIA2018.  An archived 
copy of the webcast will be available at www.nvidia.com/proxy through May 30, 2018.
Even if you plan to attend the 2018 Meeting online, we recommend that you also vote by proxy as described below so that 
your vote will be counted if you later decide not to attend the 2018 Meeting. 
Quorum and Voting
To hold our 2018 Meeting, we need a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at the close of business on March 
22, 2018, or a quorum, represented at the 2018 Meeting either by attendance online or by proxy. On the record date, there 
were 607,036,458 shares of common stock outstanding and entitled to vote, meaning that 303,518,230 shares must be 
represented at the 2018 Meeting or by proxy to have a quorum.  A list of stockholders entitled to vote will be available for 
10 days prior to the 2018 Meeting at our headquarters, 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, California.  If you would 
like to view the stockholder list, please call our Investor Relations Department at (408) 486-2000 to schedule an appointment.
Your shares will be counted towards the quorum only if you submit a valid proxy or vote at the 2018 Meeting. Abstentions 
and broker non-votes will be counted towards the quorum requirement. If there is not a quorum, a majority of the votes 
present may adjourn the 2018 Meeting to another date.
You may vote FOR any nominee to the Board, you may WITHHOLD your vote for any nominee or you may ABSTAIN from 
voting. For each other matter to be voted on, you may vote FOR or AGAINST or ABSTAIN from voting.
Stockholder of Record
You are a stockholder of record if your shares were registered directly in your name with our transfer agent, Computershare, 
on March 22, 2018, and can vote shares in any of the following ways:
• By attending the 2018 Meeting online and voting during the meeting;

--- Page 23 ---
6
• Via mail, by signing and mailing your proxy card to us before the 2018 Meeting; or
• By telephone or via the Internet, by following the instructions provided in the Notice or your proxy materials.
You may change your vote or revoke your proxy before the final vote at the 2018 Meeting in any of the following ways:
• Attend the 2018 Meeting online and vote during the meeting;
• Submit another properly completed proxy card with a later date;
• Send a written notice that you are revoking your proxy to NVIDIA Corporation, 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa 
Clara, California 95051, Attention: Timothy S. Teter, Secretary; or
• Submit another proxy by telephone or via the Internet after you have already provided an earlier proxy.
If you do not vote using any of the ways described above, your shares will not be voted.
Street Name Holder  
If your shares are held through a nominee, such as a bank or broker, as of March 22, 2018, then you are the beneficial owner 
of shares held in “street name.” As a beneficial owner you have the right to direct the nominee how to vote the shares in 
your account. The nominee should provide you a separate Notice or voting instructions, and you should follow those 
instructions to tell the nominee how to vote. To vote by attending the 2018 Meeting online, you must obtain a valid proxy 
from your nominee.  
If you are a beneficial holder and do not provide voting instructions to your nominee, the nominee will not be authorized to 
vote your shares on “non-routine” matters, including elections of directors (even if not contested), executive compensation 
(including any advisory stockholder votes on executive compensation) and amendments of equity plans.  This is called a 
“broker non-vote.”  If you are a beneficial holder and do not provide voting instructions to your nominee, the nominee will 
have discretion to vote for matters considered by the NYSE to be “routine,” including the ratification and selection of our 
independent registered public accounting firm for Fiscal 2019. Therefore, you MUST give your nominee instructions in 
order for your vote to be counted on the proposals to elect directors, to conduct an advisory approval of our executive 
compensation, to amend and restate our 2007 Plan, and to amend and restate our 2012 ESPP.  We strongly encourage 
you to vote.
If you are a beneficial owner and you do not provide your nominee with voting instructions, the nominee can still register 
your shares for being present at the 2018 Annual meeting for determining quorum.  
Note that under the rules of the national stock exchanges, any NVIDIA stockholder whose shares are held in street name 
by a member brokerage firm may revoke a proxy and vote his or her shares at the 2018 Meeting only in accordance with 
applicable rules and procedures of those exchanges, as employed by the street name holder’s brokerage firm. 
Vote Count
On each matter to be voted upon, stockholders have one vote for each share of NVIDIA common stock owned as of March 
22, 2018.  Votes will be counted by the inspector of election as follows:
Proposal
Number Proposal Description Vote Required for Approval
Effect of
Abstentions
Effect of Broker 
Non-Votes
1 Election of eleven directors Directors are elected if they receive more 
FOR votes than WITHHOLD votes None None
2 Approval of our executive
compensation
FOR votes from the holders of a majority of 
shares present and entitled to vote on this 
matter
Against None
3
Ratification of the selection of
PwC as our independent
registered public accounting
firm for Fiscal 2019
FOR votes from the holders of a majority of 
shares present and entitled to vote on this 
matter
Against None
4 Approval of an amendment and
restatement of our 2007 Plan
FOR votes from the holders of a majority of 
shares present and entitled to vote on this 
matter
Against None
5 Approval of an amendment and
restatement of our 2012 ESPP
FOR votes from the holders of a majority of 
shares present and entitled to vote on this 
matter
Against None

--- Page 24 ---
7
If you are a stockholder of record and you return a signed proxy card without marking any selections, your shares will be 
voted FOR each of the nominees listed in Proposal 1 and FOR the other proposals. If any other matter is properly presented 
at the 2018 Meeting, Jen-Hsun Huang or Timothy S. Teter as your proxyholder will vote your shares using his best judgment.
Vote Results
Preliminary voting results will be announced at the 2018 Meeting. Final voting results will be published in a current report 
on Form 8-K or Form 10-Q, which will be filed with the SEC by May 22, 2018.
Proxy Materials
As permitted by SEC rules, we are making our proxy materials available to stockholders electronically via the Internet at 
www.nvidia.com/proxy.  On or about April 6, 2018, we sent stockholders who own our common stock at the close of business 
on March 22, 2018 (other than those who previously requested electronic or paper delivery) a Notice containing instructions 
on how to access our proxy materials, vote via the Internet or by telephone, and elect to receive future proxy materials 
electronically or in printed form by mail.
If you choose to receive future proxy materials electronically (via www.proxyvote.com for stockholders of record and 
www.icsdelivery.com/nvda for street name holders) you will receive an email next year with links to the proxy materials 
and proxy voting site. 
SEC rules also permit companies and intermediaries, such as brokers, to satisfy Notice and proxy material delivery 
requirements for multiple stockholders with the same address by delivering a single Notice or set of proxy materials 
addressed to those stockholders.  We follow this practice, known as “householding,” unless we have received contrary 
instructions from any stockholder at that address. 
If you received more than one Notice or full set of proxy materials, then your shares are either registered in more than one 
name or are held in different accounts. Please vote the shares covered by each Notice or proxy card. To modify your 
instructions so that you receive one Notice or proxy card for each account or name, please contact your broker. Your 
“householding” election will continue until you are notified otherwise or until you revoke your consent. 
To make a change regarding the form in which you receive proxy materials (electronically or in print), or to request receipt 
of a separate set of documents to a household, contact our Investor Relations Department (through our website at 
www.nvidia.com, with an electronic mail message to ir@nvidia.com or by mail at 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, 
California 95051).
We will pay the entire cost of soliciting proxies. Our directors and employees may also solicit proxies in person, by telephone, 
by mail, via the Internet or by other means of communication.  Our directors and employees will not be paid any additional 
compensation for soliciting proxies. We have also retained MacKenzie Partners on an advisory basis for a fee not to exceed 
$20,000 and they may help us solicit proxies from brokers, bank nominees and other institutional owners. We may also 
reimburse brokerage firms, banks and other agents for the cost of forwarding proxy materials to beneficial owners.
2019 Meeting Stockholder Proposals
To be considered for inclusion in next year’s proxy materials, your proposal must be submitted in writing by December 7, 
2018 to NVIDIA Corporation, 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, California 95051, Attention: Timothy S. Teter, 
Secretary and must comply with all applicable requirements of Rule 14a-8 promulgated under the Exchange Act.  However, 
if we do not hold our 2018 Meeting between April 16, 2019 and June 15, 2019, then the deadline is a reasonable time before 
we begin to print and send our proxy materials. If you wish to submit a proposal for consideration at the 2019 Meeting that 
is not to be included in next year’s proxy materials, you must do so in writing following the above instructions not later than 
the close of business on February 15, 2019, and not earlier than January 16, 2019. We also advise you to review our Bylaws, 
which contain additional requirements about advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. 

--- Page 25 ---
8
Proposal 1—Election of Directors
What am I voting on?  Electing the 11 director nominees identified below to hold office until the 2019 Meeting and until 
his or her successor is elected or appointed.
Vote required:  Directors are elected if they receive more FOR votes than WITHHOLD votes.
Our Board has 11 members.  All of our directors have one-year terms and stand for election annually.  Our nominees include 
10 independent directors, as defined by the rules and regulations of NASDAQ, and one NVIDIA officer:  Mr. Huang, who serves 
as our President and CEO.  Each of the nominees listed below is currently a director of NVIDIA previously elected by our 
stockholders. 
The Board expects the nominees will be available for election. If a nominee declines or is unable to act as a director, your 
proxy may be voted for any substitute nominee proposed by the Board or the size of the Board may be reduced. 
Recommendation of the Board
The Board recommends that you vote FOR the election of each of the following nominees:
Name Age
Director
Since Occupation Independent
Other
Public
Company
Boards
Robert K. Burgess 60 2011 Independent Consultant
 2
Tench Coxe 60 1993 Managing Director, Sutter Hill Ventures
 2
Persis S. Drell 62 2015 Provost, Stanford University
 –
James C. Gaither 80 1998 Managing Director, Sutter Hill Ventures
 –
Jen-Hsun Huang 55 1993 President & CEO, NVIDIA Corporation –
Dawn Hudson 60 2013 Chief Marketing Officer, National Football League
 1
Harvey C. Jones 65 1993 Managing Partner, Square Wave Ventures
 –
Michael G. McCaffery 64 2015 Chairman & Managing Director, Makena Capital Management
 –
Mark L. Perry (1) 62 2005 Independent Consultant
 2
A. Brooke Seawell 70 1997 Venture Partner, New Enterprise Associates
 1
Mark A. Stevens 58 2008
(2)
Managing Partner, S-Cubed Capital
 1
(1)  Lead Director
(2)  Mr. Stevens previously served as a member of our Board from 1993 until 2006

--- Page 26 ---
9
Director Qualifications and Nomination of Directors
The NCGC identifies, reviews and assesses the qualifications of existing and potential directors and selects nominees for 
recommendation to the Board for approval. Ensuring the Board is composed of directors who exhibit a variety of skills, 
education, professional experience and backgrounds, as well as bring diverse viewpoints and perspectives, is a priority of 
the NCGC and the Board. The NCGC may conduct any appropriate and necessary inquiries into the backgrounds and 
qualifications of possible candidates after considering the function and needs of the Board. The NCGC may also engage a 
professional search firm to identify and assist the NCGC in identifying, evaluating and conducting due diligence on potential 
director nominees. The NCGC has not established specific minimum age, education, experience or skill requirements for 
potential members, and instead considers numerous factors regarding the nominee in light of our current business model, 
including the following: 
Directors’ Skills, Qualifications and Traits
• Integrity and candor
• Independence
• Senior management and operating experience necessary to 
oversee our business
• Professional, technical and industry knowledge
• Financial expertise
• Financial community experience (including as an investor in 
other companies)
• Marketing and brand management
• Public company board experience
• Experience with emerging technologies and new business 
models
• Legal expertise
• Diversity, including gender and ethnic background
• Academia experience
• Desirability as a member of any committees of the Board
• Willingness and ability to devote substantial time and effort to 
Board responsibilities and Company oversight
• Ability to represent the interests of the stockholders as a 
whole rather than special interest groups or constituencies
• All relationships between the proposed nominee and any of 
our stockholders, competitors, customers, suppliers or other 
persons with a relationship to NVIDIA
• Overall service to NVIDIA, including past attendance at Board 
and committee meetings and participation and contributions to 
the activities of the Board
The NCGC and the Board understand the importance of Board refreshment, and strive to maintain an appropriate balance 
of tenure, diversity and skills on the Board. While the Board benefits from the extensive experience and institutional 
knowledge that our longer-serving directors bring, it has also brought in new perspectives and ideas by appointing three 
new directors in the last five years. We feel that the mix of our Board members is the appropriate blend of experience and 
new perspectives.  Our longer-tenured directors have the benefit of extensive familiarity with our operations and business 
areas and have the perspective of overseeing our activities during a wide variety of economic and competitive environments.  
Our new directors bring valuable insights in areas such as consumer marketing, branding and technology developments 
at leading academic institutions that are critical to supporting NVIDIA as it competes in new markets.  Each year, as part of 
its annual evaluation, the NCGC and Board reviews each director’s past contributions, outside experiences and activities 
and makes a determination concerning how her or his experience and skills continue to add value to NVIDIA and the Board.
The following chart summarizes the skills and competencies of each director nominee that led our Board to conclude that 
he or she is qualified to serve on our Board.  The lack of a check does not mean the director does not possess that skill or 
qualification; rather, a check indicates a specific area of focus or expertise for which the Board relies on such director 
nominee most.
Director Skills and Competencies
Burgess Coxe Drell Gaither Huang Hudson Jones McCaffery Perry Seawell Stevens
Senior Management and
Operations
Industry and Technical
Financial/Financial
Community
Public Company Board
Emerging Technologies and
Business Models
Marketing and Brand
Management
Legal


--- Page 27 ---
10
The NCGC evaluates candidates proposed by stockholders using the same criteria as it uses for other candidates. 
Stockholders seeking to recommend a prospective nominee should follow the instructions under Stockholder 
Communications with the Board of Directors below. Stockholder submissions must include the full name of the proposed 
nominee, a description of the proposed nominee’s business experience for at least the previous five years, complete 
biographical information, a description of the proposed nominee’s qualifications as a director and a representation that the 
nominating stockholder is a beneficial or record owner of our stock. Any such submission must be accompanied by the 
written consent of the proposed nominee to be named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected. 
In addition, in November 2016, our Board voluntarily adopted proxy access by amending our Bylaws. As a result, our Bylaws 
provide that under certain circumstances, information regarding a director candidate or candidates nominated by a 
stockholder or group of stockholders will be included in our proxy statement. Information will be included regarding the 
greater of two candidates or 20% of the number of directors in office on the last day that a submission may be delivered, 
if nominated by a stockholder (or group of up to 20 stockholders) owning at least 3% of the voting power of our outstanding 
capital stock, continuously for at least three years. The stockholder or group must provide timely written notice of such 
nomination and the stockholder(s) and nominee must satisfy the other requirements specified in our Bylaws. 
The above summary of our proxy access rules is not intended to be complete and is subject to limitations set forth in our 
Bylaws and Corporate Governance Policies.  Stockholders are advised to review these documents, which contain the 
requirements for director nominations. The NCGC did not receive any stockholder nominations during Fiscal 2018.
Our Director Nominees
The biographies below include information, as of the date of this proxy statement, regarding the particular experience, 
qualifications, attributes or skills of each director, relative to the skills matrix above, that led the NCGC and Board to believe 
that he or she should continue to serve on the Board.
ROBERT K. BURGESS Robert K. Burgess has served as an independent investor and board 
member to technology companies since 2005.  He was chief 
executive officer from 1996 to 2005 of Macromedia, Inc., a provider 
of internet and multimedia software, which was acquired by Adobe 
Systems Incorporated; he also served from 1996 to 2005 on its 
board of directors, as chairman of its board of directors from 1998 
to 2005 and as executive chairman for his final year. Previously, he 
held key executive positions from 1984 to 1991 at Silicon Graphics, 
Inc. (SGI), a graphics and computing company; from 1991 to 1995, 
served as chief executive officer and a board member of Alias 
Research, Inc., a publicly traded 3D software company, until its 
acquisition by SGI; and resumed executive positions at SGI during 
1996.  Mr. Burgess serves on the board of Adobe and Rogers 
Communications Inc., a communications and media company, and 
has served on the boards of several privately-held companies.  He 
was a director of IMRIS Inc., a provider of image guided therapy 
solutions, from 2010 until 2013.  He holds a BCom degree from 
McMaster University.
Mr. Burgess brings to the Board senior management and operating 
experience and expertise in the areas of financial- and risk-
management. He has a broad understanding of the roles and 
responsibilities of a corporate board and provides valuable insight on 
a range of issues in the technology industry.
Independent Consultant
Age:  60
Director Since:  2011
Committees:  CC
Independent Director
Financial Expert


--- Page 28 ---
11
TENCH COXE Tench Coxe has been a managing director of Sutter Hill Ventures, 
a venture capital investment firm, since 1989, where he focuses 
on investments in the IT sector.  Prior to joining Sutter Hill Ventures 
in 1987, he was director of marketing and MIS at Digital 
Communication Associates.  He serves on the board of directors 
of Mattersight Corp., a customer loyalty software firm, Artisan 
Partners Asset Management Inc., an institutional money 
management firm, and several privately held technology 
companies. Mr. Coxe holds a BA degree in Economics from 
Dartmouth College and an MBA degree from Harvard Business 
School.
Mr. Coxe brings to the Board expertise in financial and transactional 
analysis and provides valuable perspectives on corporate strategy 
and emerging technology trends.  His significant financial community 
experience gives the Board an understanding of the methods by which 
companies can increase value for their stockholders.
Managing Director, 
Sutter Hill Ventures
Age:  60
Director Since:  1993
Committees:  CC
Independent Director
PERSIS S. DRELL Persis S. Drell has been the Provost of Stanford University since 
2017. A Professor of Materials Science and Engineering and 
Professor of Physics, Dr. Drell has been on the faculty at Stanford 
since 2002, and was the Dean of the Stanford School of 
Engineering from 2014 to 2017. She served as the Director of the 
U.S. Department of Energy SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory 
from 2007 to 2012. Dr. Drell is a member of the National Academy 
of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and 
is a fellow of the American Physical Society. She has been the 
recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship and a National Science 
Foundation Presidential Young Investigator Award. Dr. Drell holds 
a Ph.D. from the University of California Berkeley and an AB degree 
in Mathematics and Physics from Wellesley College.
An accomplished researcher and educator, Dr. Drell brings to the 
Board expert leadership in guiding innovation in science and 
technology.
Provost, Stanford University
Age:  62
Director Since:  2015
Committees:  CC
Independent Director
JAMES C. GAITHER James C. Gaither has been a partner of Sutter Hill Ventures, a 
venture capital investment firm, since 2000. He was a partner in 
the law firm Cooley LLP from 1971 to 2000 and senior counsel to 
the firm from 2000 to 2003. Prior to practicing law, he served as a 
law clerk to The Honorable Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United 
States Supreme Court, special assistant to the Assistant Attorney 
General in the U.S. Department of Justice and staff assistant to U.S. 
President Lyndon Johnson. Mr. Gaither is a former president of the 
Board of Trustees at Stanford University, former vice chairman of 
the board of directors of The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation 
and past chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Carnegie 
Endowment for International Peace. Mr. Gaither holds a BA degree 
in Economics from Princeton University and a JD degree from 
Stanford University Law School. 
Mr. Gaither brings to the Board expertise in corporate strategy and 
negotiating complex transactions. He also provides valuable 
perspectives on the roles and responsibilities of a corporate board, 
including oversight of a public company’s legal and regulatory 
compliance and engagement with regulatory authorities.  His 
significant financial community experience gives the Board an 
understanding of the methods by which companies can increase value 
for their stockholders.
Managing Director, Sutter
Hill Ventures
Age:  80
Director Since:  1998
Committees:  NCGC
Independent Director


--- Page 29 ---
12
JEN-HSUN HUANG Jen-Hsun Huang co-founded NVIDIA in 1993 and has since served 
as president, chief executive officer, and a member of the board of 
directors. Mr. Huang held a variety of positions from 1985 to 1993 
at LSI Logic Corp., a computer chip manufacturer, including leading 
the business unit responsible for the company’s system-on-a-chip 
strategy. He was a microprocessor designer from 1984 to 1985 at 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Huang 
holds a BSEE degree from Oregon State University and an MSEE 
degree from Stanford University. 
Mr. Huang is one of the technology industry’s most respected 
executives, having taken NVIDIA from a startup to a world leader in 
visual computing.  Under his guidance, NVIDIA has compiled a record 
of consistent innovation and sharp execution, marked by products that 
have gained strong market share.
President and Chief
Executive Officer, NVIDIA
Corporation
Age:  55
Director Since:  1993
Committees:  None
DAWN HUDSON Dawn Hudson has served as Chief Marketing Officer for the 
National Football League since 2014.  She announced in March 
2018 her intention to step down from the role effective April 2018.  
Ms. Hudson served from 2009 to 2014 as vice chairman of The 
Parthenon Group, an advisory firm focused on strategy consulting.  
She was president and chief executive officer of Pepsi-Cola North 
America, the beverage division of PepsiCo, Inc. for the U.S. and 
Canada, from 2005 to 2007 and president from 2002, and 
simultaneously served as chief executive officer of the foodservice 
division of PepsiCo, Inc. from 2005 to 2007.  Previously, she spent 
13 years in marketing, advertising and branding strategy, holding 
leadership positions at major agencies, such as D’Arcy Masius 
Benton & Bowles and Omnicom.  Ms. Hudson currently serves on 
the board of directors of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 
an advertising holding company.  She was a director of P.F. Chang’s 
China Bistro, Inc., a restaurant chain, from 2010 until 2012, of 
Allergan, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, from 2008 until 2014, 
of Lowes Companies, Inc., a home improvement retailer, from 2001 
until 2015, and of Amplify Snack Brands, Inc., a snack food 
company, from 2014 until 2018.  She holds a BA degree in English 
from Dartmouth College. 
Ms. Hudson brings to the board experience in executive leadership. 
As a longtime marketing executive, she has valuable expertise and 
insights in leveraging brands, brand development and consumer 
behavior. She also has considerable corporate governance 
experience, gained from more than 10 years of serving on the boards 
of public companies. 
Chief Marketing Officer,
National Football League
Age:  60
Director Since:  2013
Committees:  AC
Independent Director
Financial Expert


--- Page 30 ---
13
HARVEY C. JONES Harvey C. Jones has been the managing partner of Square Wave 
Ventures, a private investment firm, since 2004. Mr. Jones has been 
an entrepreneur, high technology executive and active venture 
investor for over 30 years. In 1981, he co-founded Daisy Systems 
Corp., a computer-aided engineering company, ultimately serving 
as its president and chief executive officer until 1987. Between 
1987 and 1998, he led Synopsys. Inc., a major electronic design 
automation company, serving as its chief executive officer for seven 
years and then as executive chairman. In 1997, Mr. Jones co-
founded Tensilica Inc., a privately held technology IP company that 
developed and licensed high performance embedded processing 
cores. He served as chairman of the Tensilica board of directors 
from inception through its 2013 acquisition by Cadence Design 
Systems, Inc.  In 2016, Mr. Jones joined the board of directors of 
and invested in TempoQuest, a private company seeking to develop 
advanced weather forecasting systems that exploit accelerated 
GPU technology. He was a director of Tintri Inc., a company that 
builds data storage solutions for virtual and cloud environments, 
from 2014 until March 2018. Mr. Jones holds a BS degree in 
Mathematics and Computer Sciences from Georgetown University 
and an MS degree in Management from Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology. 
Mr. Jones brings to the board an executive management background, 
an understanding of semiconductor technologies and complex 
system design.  He provides valuable insight into innovation 
strategies, research and development efforts, as well as management 
and development of our technical employees. His significant financial 
community experience gives the Board an understanding of the 
methods by which companies can increase value for their 
stockholders.
Managing Partner, Square
Wave Ventures
Age:  65
Director Since:  1993
Committees:  CC, NCGC
Independent Director
Financial Expert
MICHAEL G. McCAFFERY Michael G. McCaffery is the Chairman and a Managing Director of 
Makena Capital Management, an investment management firm. 
From 2005 to 2013, he was the Chief Executive Officer of Makena 
Capital Management.  From 2000 to 2006, he was the President 
and Chief Executive Officer of the Stanford Management Company, 
the university subsidiary charged with managing Stanford 
University’s financial and real estate investments. Prior to Stanford 
Management Company, Mr. McCaffery was President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Robertson Stephens and Company, a San 
Francisco-based investment bank and investment management 
firm, from 1993 to 2009, and also served as Chairman in 2000.  Mr. 
McCaffery serves on the board of directors, or on the advisory 
boards, of several privately held companies and non-profits.  He 
was a director of KB Home, a homebuilding company, from 2003 
until 2015.  Mr. McCaffery is a Trustee of the Rhodes Scholarship 
Trust.  He holds a BA degree from the Woodrow Wilson School of 
Public and International Affairs at Princeton University, a BA 
Honours degree and an MA degree in Politics, Philosophy and 
Economics from Merton College, Oxford University, Oxford, 
England, and an MBA degree from the Stanford Graduate School 
of Business.
Mr. McCaffery brings to the Board a broad array of business, 
investment and real estate experience and recognized expertise in 
financial matters, as well as a demonstrated commitment to good 
corporate governance. 
Chairman and Managing
Director, Makena Capital
Management
Age:  64
Director Since:  2015
Committees:  AC
Independent Director
Financial Expert


--- Page 31 ---
14
MARK L. PERRY Mark L. Perry serves on the boards of, and consults for, various 
companies and non-profit organizations.  From 2012 to 2013, Mr. 
Perry served as an Entrepreneur-in-Residence at Third Rock 
Ventures, a venture capital firm.  He served from 2007 to 2011 as 
president and chief executive officer of Aerovance, Inc., a 
biopharmaceutical company. He was an executive officer from 
1994 to 2004 at Gilead Sciences, Inc., a biopharmaceutical 
company, serving in a variety of capacities, including general 
counsel, chief financial officer, and executive vice president of 
operations, responsible for worldwide sales and marketing, legal, 
manufacturing and facilities; he was also its senior business 
advisor until 2007.  From 1981 to 1994, Mr. Perry was with the law 
firm Cooley LLP, where he was a partner for seven years. He serves 
on the board of directors and as lead independent director of Global 
Blood Therapeutics, Inc. and on the board of directors and as 
chairman of MyoKardia, Inc., both biopharmaceutical companies.  
Mr. Perry holds a BA degree in History from the University of 
California, Berkeley, and a JD degree from the University of 
California, Davis.
Mr. Perry brings to the Board operating and finance experience gained 
in a large corporate setting. He has varied experience in legal affairs 
and corporate governance, and a deep understanding of the roles and 
responsibilities of a corporate board. 
Independent Consultant
Age:  62
Director Since:  2005
Committees:  AC, NCGC
Independent Director
Financial Expert
A. BROOKE SEAWELL A. Brooke Seawell has served since 2005 as a venture partner at 
New Enterprise Associates, and was a partner from 2000 to 2005 
at Technology Crossover Ventures. He was executive vice president 
from 1997 to 1998 at NetDynamics, Inc., an application server 
software company, which was acquired by Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
He was senior vice president and chief financial officer from 1991 
to 1997 of Synopsys, Inc., an electronic design automation software 
company. He serves on the board of directors of Tableau Software, 
Inc., a business intelligence software company, and several 
privately held companies.  Mr. Seawell served on the board of 
directors of Glu Mobile, Inc., a publisher of mobile games, from 
2006 to 2014, and of Informatica Corp., a data integration software 
company, from 1997 to 2015.  He also previously served as a  
member of the Stanford University Athletic Board and on the 
Management Board of the Stanford Graduate School of Business.  
Mr. Seawell holds a BA degree in Economics and an MBA degree 
in Finance from Stanford University. 
Mr. Seawell brings to the Board operational expertise and senior 
management experience, including knowledge of the complex issues 
facing public companies, and a deep understanding of accounting 
principles and financial reporting. His significant financial community 
experience gives the Board an understanding of the methods by which 
companies can increase value for their stockholders.
Venture Partner, New
Enterprise Associates
Age:  70
Director Since:  1997
Committees:  CC
Independent Director
Financial Expert


--- Page 32 ---
15
MARK A. STEVENS Mark A. Stevens has been the managing partner of S-Cubed Capital, 
a private family office investment firm, since 2012.   He was a 
managing partner from 1993 to 2011 of Sequoia Capital, a venture 
capital investment firm, where he had been an associate for the 
preceding four years.  Previously, he held technical sales and 
marketing positions at Intel Corporation, and was a member of the 
technical staff at Hughes Aircraft Co. Mr. Stevens serves as a 
member of the board of directors of Quantenna Communications, 
Inc., a provider of Wi-Fi solutions and is a Trustee of the University 
of Southern California. Mr. Stevens holds a BSEE degree, a BA 
degree in Economics and an MS degree in Computer Engineering 
from the University of Southern California and an MBA degree from 
Harvard Business School.
Mr. Stevens brings to the Board a deep understanding of the 
technology industry, and the drivers of structural change and high-
growth opportunities. He provides valuable insight regarding 
corporate strategy development and the analysis of acquisitions and 
divestitures.  His significant financial community experience gives the 
Board an understanding of the methods by which companies can 
increase value for their stockholders.
Managing Partner, S-Cubed
Capital
Age:  58
Director Since:  2008
(previously served 
1993-2006)
Committees:  AC, NCGC
Independent Director
In Memoriam - William J. Miller
 
Mr. William J. Miller, the Lead Director of the Board, passed away in December 2017.  Mr. 
Miller had been on our Board since 1994 and was the chairman of the NCGC.  He served on 
the Board through NVIDIA’s initial public offering and served as a trusted adviser, providing 
steady leadership and guidance throughout the growth of the Company. He will be greatly 
missed.
 


--- Page 33 ---
16
Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate Governance
Independence of the Members of the Board of Directors
NASDAQ rules and our Corporate Governance Policies require that at least a majority of our directors not have a relationship 
that would interfere with their exercise of independent judgment in carrying out their responsibilities and meet any other 
qualification requirements required by the SEC and NASDAQ.  After considering all relevant relationships and transactions, 
our Board determined that 91% of our directors are “independent” as defined by NASDAQ’s rules and regulations.  Mr. Huang 
is the only non-independent director on our Board. The Board also determined that all members of our AC, CC and NCGC 
are independent under applicable NASDAQ listing standards.  In addition, Messrs. McCaffery and Perry and Ms. Hudson of 
the AC are “audit committee financial experts” based on SEC rules.
Board Leadership Structure
We believe that all members of our Board should have an equal voice in the affairs and the management of NVIDIA.  Consistent 
with this philosophy, while our Bylaws and Corporate Governance Policies allow for the appointment of a chairperson of 
the board, we have chosen at this time not to have one.  Given that we do not have a chairperson, the Board believes that 
our stockholders are best served at this time by having an independent Lead Director, who is an integral part of our Board 
structure and a critical aspect of our effective corporate governance. The independent directors consider the role and 
designation of the Lead Director on an annual basis. Mr. Perry was appointed as our Lead Director effective March 2018 
and brings such skills and experience, as described in Our Director Nominees, to the role. In addition, Mr. Perry serves on 
both the NCGC and the AC, which affords him increased engagement with Board governance and composition as well as 
with risk assessment and management, and financial and regulatory matters of the Company. While the CEO has primary 
responsibility for preparing the agendas for Board meetings and presiding over the portion of the meetings of the Board 
where he is present, our Lead Director has significant responsibilities, which are set forth in our Corporate Governance 
Policies, and include, in part:
• Determining an appropriate schedule of Board meetings, and seeking to ensure that the independent members of 
the Board can perform their duties responsibly while not interfering with the flow of our operations;
• Working with the CEO, and seeking input from all directors and other relevant management, as to the preparation 
of the agendas for Board meetings;
• Advising the CEO on a regular basis as to the quality, quantity and timeliness of the flow of information requested 
by the Board from our management with the goal of providing what is necessary for the independent members of 
the Board to effectively and responsibly perform their duties, and, although our management is responsible for 
the preparation of materials for the Board, the Lead Director may specifically request the inclusion of certain 
material; and
• Coordinating, developing the agenda for, and moderating executive sessions of the independent members of the 
Board, and acting as principal liaison between the independent members of the Board and the CEO on sensitive 
issues.
The active involvement of our independent directors, combined with the qualifications and significant responsibilities of 
our Lead Director, provide balance on the Board and promote strong, independent oversight of our management and affairs.
Role of the Board in Risk Oversight
The Board is responsible for overseeing risk management at NVIDIA. The Board exercises direct oversight of strategic risks 
to NVIDIA and other risk areas not delegated to one of its committees. Our AC has the responsibility to consider and discuss 
our major financial risk exposures and the steps our management has taken to monitor and control these exposures. The 
AC also monitors compliance with certain legal and regulatory requirements and oversees the performance of our internal 
audit function.  Our NCGC monitors the effectiveness of our anonymous tip process and corporate governance guidelines, 
including whether they are successful in preventing illegal or improper liability-creating conduct, and oversees corporate 
social responsibility risks. Our CC assesses and monitors whether any of our compensation policies and programs has the 
potential to encourage excessive risk-taking.
Management periodically provides information, including guidance on risk management and mitigation, to the Board or 
relevant committee. Each committee also reports to the Board on those matters.

--- Page 34 ---
17
Corporate Governance Policies of the Board of Directors
The Board has documented our governance practices by adopting Corporate Governance Policies to ensure that the Board 
will have the necessary authority and processes in place to review and evaluate our business operations as needed and to 
make decisions that are independent of our management. The Corporate Governance Policies set forth the practices the 
Board follows with respect to board composition and selection, regular evaluations of the Board and its committees, board 
meetings and involvement of senior management, chief executive officer performance evaluation, and board committees 
and compensation. Our Corporate Governance Policies may be viewed under Corporate Governance in the Investor Relations 
section of our website at www.nvidia.com.
Executive Sessions of the Board
As required under NASDAQ’s listing standards, our independent directors have in the past met, and will continue to meet, 
regularly in scheduled executive sessions at which only independent directors are present. In Fiscal 2018, our independent 
directors met in executive session at three Board meetings.
In addition, independent directors have in the past met, and will continue to meet, regularly in scheduled executive sessions 
with our CEO. In Fiscal 2018, our independent directors met in executive session with the CEO at all of the four regularly 
scheduled Board meetings.
Director Attendance at Annual Meeting
We do not have a formal policy regarding attendance by members of the Board at our annual meetings. We generally 
schedule a Board meeting in conjunction with our annual meeting and expect that all of our directors will attend each annual 
meeting, absent a valid reason. All of our then-Board members attended our 2017 Meeting.
Board Self-Assessments
In Fiscal 2018, the NCGC oversaw an evaluation process, conducted at least annually, whereby outside corporate counsel 
for NVIDIA interviewed each director to obtain his or her evaluation of the Board as a whole, and of the committees on which 
he or she serves. The interviews solicited ideas from the directors about, among other things, improving quality of Board 
and/or committee oversight effectiveness regarding strategic direction, financial and audit matters, executive compensation 
and other key matters.  The interviews also focused on Board process and identifying specific issues which should be 
discussed in the future.  After these evaluations were complete, our outside corporate counsel summarized the results, 
reviewed with our previous Lead Director, Mr. Miller, and then submitted the summary for discussion by the NCGC. Action 
plans were developed by the NCGC and recommended for discussion and approval by the full Board.  
In response to the evaluations conducted in Fiscal 2018, our Board determined to improve insight into committee activities 
by reviewing each committee’s annual agenda with a particular focus on strategic and risk related matters managed by 
such committees, and to encourage directors to travel with Company executives to our international offices to gain additional 
exposure to our international operations.
Director Orientation and Continuing Education
The NCGC and our General Counsel are responsible for director orientation programs and for director continuing education 
programs Continuing education programs for directors may include a combination of internally developed materials and 
presentations, programs presented by third parties, and financial and administrative support for attendance at qualifying 
academic or other independent programs. 
Director Stock Ownership Guidelines
The Board believes that directors should hold a significant equity interest in NVIDIA. Our Corporate Governance Policies 
require each non-employee director to hold a number of shares of our common stock with a value equal to six times the 
annual cash retainer for Board service during the period in which he or she serves as a director (or six times the base 
salary, in the case of the CEO).  The shares may include vested deferred stock, shares held in trust and shares held by 
immediate family members. Non-employee directors have five years after their Board appointment to reach the ownership 
threshold.  Our stock ownership guidelines are intended to further align director interests with stockholder interests.
Each of our non-employee directors and Mr. Huang currently meets or exceeds the stock ownership requirements.  
Furthermore, due to the level of their respective stock ownership, during Fiscal 2018, each of Messrs. Coxe, Jones and 
Stevens were required to make a filing with the Federal Trade Commission under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust 
Improvements Act of 1976 and pay a filing fee of $45,000 or $125,000 as required.  Consistent with our approach to 
compensation and perks, each of these individuals chose to pay his respective filing fee himself.

--- Page 35 ---
18
Hedging and Pledging Policy
Our directors and executive officers may not hedge their ownership of NVIDIA stock, including trading in options, puts, calls, 
or other derivative instruments related to NVIDIA stock or debt. Directors and executive officers may not purchase NVIDIA 
stock on margin, borrow against NVIDIA stock held in a margin account, or pledge NVIDIA stock as collateral for a loan.
Outside Advisors
The Board and each of its principal committees may retain outside advisors and consultants of their choosing at our expense. 
The Board need not obtain management’s consent to retain outside advisors. In addition, the principal committees need 
not obtain either the Board’s or management’s consent to retain outside advisors.
Code of Conduct
We expect our directors, executives and employees to conduct themselves with the highest degree of integrity, ethics and 
honesty. Our credibility and reputation depend upon the good judgment, ethical standards and personal integrity of each 
director, executive and employee. We have a Code of Conduct that applies to our executive officers, directors and employees, 
including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. We also have a Financial 
Team Code of Conduct that applies to our executive officers, directors and members of our finance department. We regularly 
review our Code of Conduct and related policies to ensure that they provide clear guidance to our directors, executives and 
employees.
The Code of Conduct and the Financial Team Code of Conduct are available under Corporate Governance in the Investor 
Relations section of our website at www.nvidia.com. If we make any amendments to the Code of Conduct or the Financial 
Team Code of Conduct or grant any waiver from a provision of either code to any executive officer or director, we will promptly 
disclose the nature of the amendment or waiver on our website.
Corporate Hotline
We have established an independent corporate hotline to allow any employee to confidentially and anonymously lodge a 
complaint about any accounting, internal control, auditing, Code of Conduct or other matter of concern (unless prohibited 
by local privacy laws for employees located in the European Union).
Stockholder Communications with the Board of Directors
Stockholders who wish to communicate with the Board regarding nominations of directors or other matters may do so by 
sending written communications addressed to Timothy S. Teter, our Secretary, at NVIDIA Corporation, 2788 San Tomas 
Expressway, Santa Clara, California 95051. All stockholder communications we receive that are addressed to the Board will 
be compiled by our Secretary. If no particular director is named, letters will be forwarded, depending on the subject matter, 
to the chairperson of the AC, CC or NCGC.  Matters put forth by our stockholders will be reviewed by the NCGC, which will 
determine whether these matters should be presented to the Board. The NCGC will give serious consideration to all such 
matters and will make its determination in accordance with its charter and applicable laws.
Majority Vote Standard
Our Bylaws provide that in a non-contested election if the votes cast FOR an incumbent director do not exceed the number 
of WITHHOLD votes, such incumbent director shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the Board. The NCGC will then 
review the circumstances surrounding the WITHHOLD vote and promptly make a recommendation to the Board on whether 
to accept or reject the resignation or whether other action should be taken. The Board will act on the NCGC’s recommendation 
and publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days from the date of certification of the stockholder 
vote. 
In a contested election, which is an election in which the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, 
our directors will be elected by a plurality of the shares represented at any such meeting or by proxy and entitled to vote 
on the election of directors at that meeting.  Under this provision, the directors receiving the greatest number of FOR votes 
will be elected.
Board Meeting Information
The Board met five times during Fiscal 2018, and held a two-day meeting, during which the Board discussed the strategic 
direction of NVIDIA, explored and discussed new business opportunities and the product roadmap, and other matters facing 
NVIDIA.  We expect each Board member to attend each meeting of the Board and the committees on which he or she serves. 
Each Board member attended 75% or more of the meetings of the Board and of each committee on which he or she served, 
with the exception of Mr. Miller, whose attendance fell below 75% due to illness.

--- Page 36 ---
19
Committees of the Board of Directors
The Board has three standing committees: an AC, a CC and a NCGC. Each of these committees operates under a written 
charter, which may be viewed under Corporate Governance in the Investor Relations section of our website at 
www.nvidia.com.  
The composition and various functions of our committees are set forth below.  Committee assignments are determined 
based on background and the expertise which individual directors can bring to a committee.  Our Board believes that 
rotations among committees are a good corporate governance practice which allows all members to be more fully informed 
regarding the full scope of the Board and our activities.  In addition to a rotation that took effect after the 2017 Meeting, in 
February 2018, upon the recommendations of the NCGC, the Board examined the composition and chairmanship of the 
Board’s committees and approved certain additional rotations, effective on March 1, 2018, as set forth below: 
AC
Meetings in Fiscal 2018: 9
Fiscal 2018 Members before 2017
Meeting
Fiscal 2018 Members after 2017 Meeting Members effective March 2018
Mark L. Perry (Chair)
Michael G. McCaffery
A. Brooke Seawell
Mark A. Stevens
Mark L. Perry (Chair)
Michael G. McCaffery
Dawn Hudson
Mark A. Steven
Michael G. McCaffery (Chair) 
Dawn Hudson
Mark L. Perry 
Mark A. Stevens
Committee Role and Responsibilities
• Oversees our corporate accounting and financial reporting process;
• Oversees our internal audit function;
• Determines and approves the engagement, retention and termination of the independent registered public accounting firm, 
or any new independent registered public accounting firm;
• Evaluates the performance of and assesses the qualifications of our independent registered public accounting firm;
• Reviews and approves the retention of the independent registered public accounting firm to perform any proposed 
permissible non-audit services;
• Confers with management and our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the results of the annual audit, 
the results of our quarterly financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting;
• Reviews the financial statements to be included in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K;
• Reviews earnings press releases, as well as the substance of financial information and earnings guidance provided to 
analysts on our quarterly earnings calls;
• Prepares the report required to be included by SEC rules in our annual proxy statement or Form 10-K; and
• Establishes procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints we receive regarding accounting, internal 
accounting controls or auditing matters and the confidential and anonymous submission by employees of concerns 
regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters.
CC
Meetings in Fiscal 2018: 5
Fiscal 2018 Members before 2017
Meeting
Fiscal 2018 Members after 2017 Meeting Members effective March 2018
Robert K. Burgess (Chair)
Tench Coxe
Persis S. Drell
Dawn Hudson
Harvey C. Jones
Robert K. Burgess (Chair)
Tench Coxe
Persis S. Drell
Harvey C. Jones
A. Brooke Seawell
Robert K. Burgess (Chair)
Tench Coxe
Persis S. Drell
Harvey C. Jones
A. Brooke Seawell
Committee Role and Responsibilities
• Reviews and approves our overall compensation strategy and policies;
• Reviews and recommends to the Board the compensation of our Board members;
• Reviews and approves the compensation and other terms of employment of Mr. Huang and other executive officers;
• Reviews and approves corporate performance goals and objectives relevant to the compensation of our executive officers 
and other senior management;
• Reviews and approves the disclosure contained in CD&A and for inclusion in the proxy statement and Form 10-K;
• Administers our stock option and purchase plans, variable compensation plans and other similar programs; and
• Assesses and monitors whether any of our compensation policies and programs has the potential to encourage excessive 
risk-taking.

--- Page 37 ---
20
NCGC
Meetings in Fiscal 2018: 3
Fiscal 2018 Members before 2017
Meeting
Fiscal 2018 Members after 2017 Meeting Members effective March 2018
William J. Miller(1) (Chair)
James C. Gaither
Harvey C. Jones
Mark A. Stevens
William J. Miller(1) (Chair)
James C. Gaither
Harvey C. Jones
Mark A. Stevens
Harvey C. Jones (Chair) 
James C. Gaither
Mark L. Perry 
Mark A. Stevens
Committee Role and Responsibilities
• Identifies, reviews and evaluates candidates to serve as directors;
• Recommends candidates for election to our Board;
• Makes recommendations to the Board regarding committee membership and chairs;
• Assesses the performance of the Board and its committees;
• Reviews and assesses our corporate governance principles and practices;
• Monitors changes in corporate governance practices and rules and regulations;
• Approves related party transactions;
• Reviews and assesses our corporate social responsibility;
• Establishes procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints we receive regarding violations of our Code of 
Conduct; and
• Monitors the effectiveness of our anonymous tip process.
(1) Mr. Miller passed away in December 2017.

--- Page 38 ---
21
Director Compensation
In reviewing our non-employee directors’ compensation for the year starting on the date of our 2017 Meeting, the CC 
consulted with Exequity and reviewed data from our Fiscal 2017 peer group. The CC subsequently recommended, and the 
Board approved, a mix of cash and equity awards for our non-employee directors with an approximate target annual value 
of $300,000.  This value is slightly below the median total annual compensation, both cash and equity, paid by technology 
peer companies of similar size and market capitalization to their non-employee directors. We do not pay any additional fees 
for serving as a chairperson or member of Board committees or for meeting attendance, and directors who are also 
employees do not receive any fees or equity compensation for service on the Board.
Cash Compensation 
The cash portion of the annual retainer, representing $75,000 on an annualized basis, was paid quarterly. 
Equity Compensation
The value of the equity award, in the form of RSUs, was $225,000.  The number of shares subject to each RSU award equaled 
this value, divided by the average closing market price of our common stock over the 60 calendar days ending the business 
day before the 2017 Meeting.  The RSUs were granted on the first trading day following the date of our 2017 Meeting.
To correlate the vesting of the RSUs to the non-employee directors’ service on the Board and its committees over the 
following year, the RSUs vested as to 50% on November 15, 2017 (the third Wednesday in November 2017) and will vest as 
to the remaining 50% on May 16, 2018 (the third Wednesday in May 2018).  If a non-employee director’s service terminates 
due to death, his or her RSU grants will immediately vest in full for the benefit of his or her beneficiary.  Non-employee 
directors do not receive dividend equivalents on unvested RSUs.
Deferral of Settlement
Non-employee directors could elect to defer settlement of RSUs upon vesting, to be issued on the earliest of (a) the date of 
the director’s “separation from service” (as defined under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)), unless a six month 
delay would be required under such Section, (b) the date of a change in control of NVIDIA that also would constitute a “change 
in control event” (as defined under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)), and (c) the third Wednesday in March of the 
year elected by the director, which year must have been no earlier than 2019.  Messrs. Gaither, Jones, McCaffery, and Miller, 
and Ms. Hudson elected to defer settlement of the RSUs granted to them in 2017.
Other Compensation/Benefits
Our non-employee directors are reimbursed for expenses incurred in attending Board and committee meetings, as well as 
in attending continuing educational programs pursuant to our Corporate Governance Policies. However, we do not offer 
change-in-control benefits to our directors, except for the change-in-control vesting acceleration provisions in our equity 
plans that are applicable to all holders of stock awards under such plans in the event that an acquiring company does not 
assume or substitute for such outstanding stock awards.

--- Page 39 ---
22
Director Compensation for Fiscal 2018
Name Fees Earned or Paid in Cash ($) Stock Awards ($) * Total ($)
Robert K. Burgess 75,000 284,066 359,066
Tench Coxe 75,000 284,066 359,066
Persis S. Drell 75,000 284,066 359,066
James C. Gaither 75,000 284,066 359,066
Dawn Hudson 75,000 284,066 359,066
Harvey C. Jones 75,000 284,066 359,066
Michael G. McCaffery 75,000 284,066 359,066
William J. Miller 75,000 284,066 359,066
Mark L. Perry 75,000 284,066 359,066
A. Brooke Seawell 75,000 284,066 359,066
Mark A. Stevens 75,000 284,066 359,066
*  On May 24, 2017, each non-employee director received his or her RSU grant for 2,058 shares.  Amounts shown in this column do not reflect dollar 
amounts actually received by the director. Instead, these amounts reflect the aggregate full grant date fair value calculated in accordance with FASB 
Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, or FASB ASC Topic 718, for awards granted during Fiscal 2018.  The assumptions used in the calculation 
of values of the awards are set forth under Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements titled Stock-Based Compensation in our Form 10-K.  The 
grant date fair value per share for these awards as determined under FASB ASC Topic 718 was $138.03.  
The following table provides information regarding the aggregate number of RSUs and stock options held by each of our 
non-employee directors as of January 28, 2018: 
Name RSUs Stock Options Name RSUs Stock Options
Robert K. Burgess 7,242 66,041 Michael G. McCaffery 18,927 —
Tench Coxe 1,029 — William J. Miller * — —
Persis S. Drell 11,685 — Mark L. Perry 1,029 —
James C. Gaither 8,271 20,000 A. Brooke Seawell 1,029 70,000
Dawn Hudson 25,764 90,177 Mark A. Stevens 1,029 —
Harvey C. Jones 8,271 —
*  Mr. Miller passed away in December 2017.  Pursuant to the terms of our 2007 Plan, upon his death any unvested RSUs held by Mr. Miller accelerated, 
became fully vested and were transferred to his designated beneficiary, any RSUs previously deferred were accelerated, became fully vested and 
were transferred to his designated beneficiary, and any exercisable stock options were transferred to his designated beneficiary.
10,283 RSUs for which settlement was previously deferred were ultimately issued in Fiscal 2018 to each of Messrs. Burgess, Gaither, 
Jones, and McCaffery, and Dr. Drell.

--- Page 40 ---
23
Review of Transactions with Related Persons
It is our policy that all employees, officers and directors must avoid any activity that is in conflict with, or has the appearance 
of conflicting with, our interests. This policy is included in our Code of Conduct and our Financial Team Code of Conduct. We 
conduct a review of all related party transactions for potential conflict of interest situations on an ongoing basis and all 
transactions involving executive officers or directors must be approved by the NCGC or another independent body of the 
Board. Except as discussed below, we did not conduct any transactions with related persons in Fiscal 2018 that would 
require disclosure in this proxy statement or approval by the NCGC. 
Transactions with Related Persons
We have entered into indemnity agreements with our executive officers and directors which provide, among other things, 
that we will indemnify such executive officer or director, under the circumstances and to the extent provided for therein, 
for expenses, damages, judgments, fines and settlements he or she may be required to pay in actions or proceedings which 
he or she is or may be made a party by reason of his or her position as a director, executive officer or other agent of NVIDIA, 
and otherwise to the fullest extent permitted under Delaware law and our Bylaws. We intend to execute similar agreements 
with our future executive officers and directors.
See the section below titled Employment, Severance and Change-in-Control Arrangements for a description of the terms of 
the 2007 Plan, related to a change-in-control of NVIDIA.
During Fiscal 2018, we have granted RSUs to our non-employee directors, and RSUs and PSUs to our executive officers. 
See the section above titled Director Compensation and the section below titled Executive Compensation.

--- Page 41 ---
24
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
The following table sets forth information as of January 28, 2018 as to shares of our common stock beneficially owned by 
each of our NEOs, each of our directors, all of our directors and executive officers as a group, and all known by us to be 
beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock. Beneficial ownership is determined in accordance with the SEC’s 
rules and generally includes voting or investment power with respect to securities as well as shares of common stock 
subject to options exercisable, or PSUs or RSUs that will vest, within 60 days of January 28, 2018.
This table is based upon information provided to us by our executive officers and directors. Information about principal 
stockholders, other than percentages of beneficial ownership, is based solely on Schedules 13G/A filed with the SEC. Unless 
otherwise indicated and subject to community property laws where applicable, we believe that each of the stockholders 
named in the table has sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares indicated as beneficially owned.  
Percentages are based on 606,214,893 shares of our common stock outstanding as of January 28, 2018, adjusted as required 
by SEC rules.
Name of Beneficial Owner Shares Owned
Shares
Issuable Within
60 Days
Total Shares
Beneficially
Owned Percent
NEOs:
Jen-Hsun Huang 21,401,650
(1)
2,167,187 23,568,837 3.87%
Colette M. Kress 46,213 92,001 138,214 *
Ajay K. Puri 231,802 100,562 332,364 *
Debora Shoquist 56,410 66,250 122,660 *
Timothy S. Teter 243 12,175 12,418 *
Directors, not including Mr. Huang:
Robert K. Burgess 4,431 66,041 70,472 *
Tench Coxe 1,263,975
(2)
— 1,263,975 *
Persis S. Drell 14,419 — 14,419 *
James C. Gaither 174,757
(3)
26,213 200,970 *
Dawn Hudson 3,052 90,177 93,229 *
Harvey C. Jones 449,461
(4)
6,213 455,674 *
Michael G. McCaffery 12,644 6,213 18,857 *
Mark L. Perry 87,040
(5)
— 87,040 *
A. Brooke Seawell 130,000
(6)
70,000 200,000 *
Mark A. Stevens 1,981,647
(7)
— 1,981,647 *
Directors and executive officers as a group (15 persons) 25,857,744
(8)
2,703,032 28,560,776 4.70%
5% Stockholders:
FMR LLC 48,149,925
(9)
— 48,149,925 7.94%
The Vanguard Group, Inc. 41,103,179
(10)
— 41,103,179 6.78%
BlackRock, Inc. 37,619,834
(11)
— 37,619,834 6.21%
*     Represents less than 1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock.
(1) Includes (a) 15,928,594 shares of common stock held by Jen-Hsun Huang and Lori Huang, as co-trustees of the Jen-Hsun and Lori Huang Living 
Trust, u/a/d May 1, 1995, or the Huang Trust; (b) 1,237,239 shares of common stock held by J. and L. Huang Investments, L.P., of which the Huang 
Trust is the general partner; (c) 557,000 shares of common stock held by The Huang 2012 Irrevocable Trust, of which Mr. Huang and his wife are 
co-trustees; (d) 714,855 shares of common stock held by The Jen-Hsun Huang 2016 Annuity Trust I, of which Mr. Huang is trustee; (e) 761,405 shares 
of common stock held by The Jen-Hsun Huang 2016 Annuity Trust II, of which Mr. Huang is trustee; (f) 714,855 shares of common stock held by The 
Lori Lynn Huang 2016 Annuity Trust I, of which Mr. Huang’s wife is trustee; and (g) 761,405 shares of common stock held by The Lori Lynn Huang 
2016 Annuity Trust II, of which Mr. Huang’s wife is trustee. By virtue of their status as co-trustees of the Huang Trust and The Huang 2012 Irrevocable 
Trust, each of Mr. Huang and his wife may be deemed to have shared beneficial ownership of the shares referenced in (a) - (c), and to have shared 
power to vote or to direct the vote or to dispose of or direct the disposition of such shares.
(2) Includes (a) 171,312 shares of common stock held in a retirement trust over which Mr. Coxe exercises sole voting and investment power, and (b) 
1,085,421 shares of common stock held in The Coxe Revocable Trust, of which Mr. Coxe and his wife are co-trustees and of which Mr. Coxe exercises 

--- Page 42 ---
25
shared voting and investment power. Mr. Coxe disclaims beneficial ownership in the shares held by The Coxe Revocable Trust, except to the extent 
of his pecuniary interest therein.
(3) Includes 174,757 shares of common stock held by the James C. Gaither Revocable Trust U/A/D 9/28/2000, of which Mr. Gaither is the trustee and 
of which Mr. Gaither exercises sole voting and investment power.
(4) Includes 426,970 shares of common stock held in the H.C. Jones Living Trust, of which Mr. Jones is trustee and of which Mr. Jones exercises sole 
voting and investment power.
(5) Includes 40,000 shares of common stock held by The Perry & Pena Family Trust, of which Mr. Perry and his wife are co-trustees and of which 
Mr. Perry exercises shared voting and investment power.
(6) Represents shares of common stock held by the Rosemary & A. Brooke Seawell Revocable Trust U/A dated 1/20/2009, of which Mr. Seawell and 
his wife are co-trustees and of which Mr. Seawell exercises shared voting and investment power.
(7) Includes 1,824,352 shares of common stock held by the 3rd Millennium Trust, of which Mr. Stevens and his wife are co-trustees and of which 
Mr. Stevens exercises shared voting and investment power.
(8) Includes shares owned by all directors and executive officers.
(9) This information is based solely on a Schedule 13G/A, dated January 9, 2018, filed with the SEC on January 10, 2018 by FMR LLC reporting its 
beneficial ownership as of December 29, 2017. The Schedule 13G/A reports that FMR has sole voting power with respect to 10,679,309 shares and 
sole dispositive power with respect to 48,149,925 shares. FMR is located at 245 Summer Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02210.
(10) This information is based solely on a Schedule 13G/A, dated February 7, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 9, 2018 by The Vanguard Group, Inc. 
reporting its beneficial ownership as of December 31, 2017. The Schedule 13G/A reports that Vanguard has sole voting power with respect to 855,993 
shares and sole dispositive power with respect to 40,140,181 shares. Vanguard is located at 100 Vanguard Boulevard, Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355.
(11) This information is based solely on a Schedule 13G/A, dated January 24, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 8, 2018 by BlackRock, Inc. reporting 
its beneficial ownership as of December 31, 2017. The Schedule 13G/A reports that BlackRock has sole voting power with respect to 32,604,182 
shares and sole dispositive power with respect to 37,619,834 shares. BlackRock is located at 55 East 52nd Street, New York, New York 10055.

--- Page 43 ---
26
Proposal 2—Approval of Executive Compensation
What am I voting on?  A non-binding vote, known as “say-on-pay,” to approve our Fiscal 2018 NEO compensation.
Vote required:  A majority of the shares present or represented by proxy.
Effect of abstentions:  Same as a vote AGAINST.
Effect of broker non-votes:  None.  
In accordance with Section 14A of the Exchange Act, we are asking our stockholders to vote on an advisory basis, commonly 
referred to as “say-on-pay”, to approve the compensation paid to our NEOs as disclosed in the CD&A, the compensation 
tables and the related narrative disclosure contained in this proxy statement. In response to our stockholders’ preference, 
our Board has adopted a policy of providing for annual “say-on-pay” votes. This vote is not intended to address any specific 
item of compensation, but rather the overall compensation of our NEOs and the philosophy, policies and practices described 
in this proxy statement.
This advisory proposal is not binding on the Board or us. Nevertheless, the views expressed by the stockholders, whether 
through this vote or otherwise, are important to management and the Board and, accordingly, the Board and the CC intend 
to consider the results of this vote in making determinations in the future regarding NEO compensation arrangements.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board recommends that our stockholders adopt the following resolution:
“RESOLVED, that the compensation paid to the Company’s named executive officers, as disclosed pursuant to Item 402 of 
Regulation S-K, including the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, compensation tables and narrative discussion is 
hereby APPROVED.”
.

--- Page 44 ---
27
Executive Compensation
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
This section describes the Fiscal 2018 executive compensation for our NEOs, who were: 
Name Current Title
Jen-Hsun Huang President and CEO
Colette M. Kress Executive Vice President and CFO
Ajay K. Puri Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations
Debora Shoquist Executive Vice President, Operations
Timothy S. Teter Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary*
*   Mr. Teter joined NVIDIA in January of 2017 as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, and received a new-hire RSU grant in Fiscal 2018.  
As a result, Mr. Teter did not receive the annual equity opportunity that the other NEOs received or any other equity grants in Fiscal 2018.  Accordingly, 
for purposes of this CD&A: (i) references to, and calculations regarding, performance-based and/or at-risk compensation exclude Mr. Teter’s Fiscal 
2018 pay, and (ii) “Other NEOs” include only Ms. Kress, Mr. Puri, and Ms. Shoquist.
Table of Contents to Compensation Discussion and Analysis Page
Executive Summary
Our Compensation Practices
How We Determine Executive Compensation
Components of Pay and Pay Mix
Compensation Actions and Achievements
Additional Executive Compensation Practices, Policies and Procedures
Executive Summary
Executive Compensation Goals
We design our executive compensation program to pay for performance and to attract, motivate and retain a high-caliber 
executive team.  Our program aligns our NEOs’ interests with those of our stockholders, creating long-term value.  NEO pay 
is heavily weighted toward performance-based variable cash and long-term equity awards that are only earned if we achieve 
pre-established corporate financial metrics such as revenue, Non-GAAP Operating Income, and TSR.  In Fiscal 2018, 
performance-based compensation represented 92% and 57% of the total target pay of Mr. Huang and our Other NEOs, 
respectively.
Stockholder Feedback
In recent years, our CC has modified our executive compensation program in response to stockholder feedback, which we 
solicit annually, including:
• Transitioning Mr. Huang’s equity compensation to 100% PSUs and increasing the proportion of PSUs for our Other 
NEOs
• Increasing the proportion of at-risk compensation to total target pay
• Introducing PSUs that are based on relative TSR, with a multi-year performance period
• Establishing and maintaining separate financial metrics for each type of performance-based compensation
Our Fiscal 2017 executive compensation program received over 97% “say-on-pay” approval from our stockholders.  After 
considering this advisory vote and feedback from our annual stockholder outreach, our CC concluded that our program 
effectively aligned executive pay with stockholder interests.  Therefore, the CC maintained the same general compensation 
structure and made refinements for Fiscal 2018 to strengthen the link between corporate performance and NEO pay even 
further, including increasing the proportion of NEO compensation that is at-risk and performance-based. 
27
29
29
31
32
38

--- Page 45 ---
28
Executive Compensation Program
Our CC oversees our executive compensation program and determines pay components, target compensation, and 
achievement for our NEOs.  Our Fiscal 2018 executive compensation consisted primarily of the following elements:
Compensation
Element
Fixed or
At-Risk
Performance
Measure
% of Fiscal 2018 Target Pay*
Purpose CEO Other NEOs
CASH
   Base Salary Compensate for expected day-to-day performance Fixed N/A 8% 21%
   Variable Cash Motivate and reward for annual corporate
financial performance At-Risk Annual
Revenue 9% 9%
EQUITY INCENTIVES
   RSUs Align with stockholder interests by linking NEO
pay to the performance of our common stock At-Risk N/A N/A 22%
   SY PSUs
Align with short-term stockholder interests by
linking NEO pay to annual operational
performance
At-Risk
Annual Non-
GAAP Operating
Income
55% 44%
   MY PSUs Align with long-term stockholder interests by
linking NEO pay to multi-year shareholder return
At-Risk
3-Year TSR
Relative to S&P
500
28% 4%
% OF PERFORMANCE-BASED PAY: 92% 57%
% OF AT-RISK PAY: 92% 79%
*   Calculations based on total target pay as approved by the CC, consisting of base salary, target opportunity under our Variable Cash Plan, and target 
value of equity opportunities the CC intended to deliver.
Financial Highlights
Starting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the GPU to solve some of the most complex problems in computer 
science.  We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of artificial intelligence.   Our platform strategy 
combines hardware, system software, programmable algorithms, libraries, systems, and services to create unique value 
for the Gaming, Professional Visualization, Datacenter, and Automotive markets.  For Fiscal 2018, NVIDIA’s TSR was 119% 
and we reported record revenue of $9.71 billion and record Non-GAAP Operating Income of $3.62 billion.  
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in this CD&A for a reconciliation between the non-GAAP measures and GAAP results.
On January 28, 2018, the MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2016 completed the three-year performance measurement period 
covering Fiscal 2016 through Fiscal 2018.  NVIDIA’s TSR for this three-year period was 971%, representing the 100th 
percentile of companies in the S&P 500. 
For Fiscal 2018:
• Our NEOs were awarded cash payouts of 200% of target opportunity under our Fiscal 2018 Variable Cash Plan; 
• Shares representing 150% of Mr. Huang’s Fiscal 2018 SY PSU target opportunity and 200% of the Other NEOs’ 
respective Fiscal 2018 SY PSU target opportunity became eligible to vest over four years from the date of grant; 
and
• Shares representing 150% of Mr. Huang’s MY PSU target opportunity and 200% of the Other NEOs’ respective MY 
PSU target opportunity for the Fiscal 2016 though Fiscal 2018 performance period became eligible to vest fully in 
March 2018

--- Page 46 ---
29
Our Compensation Practices
Our executive compensation program adheres to the following practices: 
What We Do What We Don’t Do
Emphasize at-risk, performance-based compensation, 
with objective and distinct goals for each such component
Include multi-year PSU awards
Use objective annual and 3-year performance targets to 
determine SY PSU and MY PSU awards earned, 
respectively
Require NEOs to provide continuous service for 12 
months to vest in any equity awards and 4 years to fully 
vest in SY PSU and RSU awards
Reevaluate and adjust our program annually based on 
stockholder and corporate governance group feedback 
Minimize inappropriate risk-taking
Cap performance-based variable cash and PSU payouts
Retain an independent compensation consultant 
reporting directly to the CC
Require our NEOs to maintain meaningful stock 
ownership
Enforce “no-hedging” and “no-pledging” policies
Maintain a clawback policy for performance-based 
compensation
X Enter into agreements with NEOs providing for specific 
terms of employment or severance benefits
X Give our executive officers special change-in-control 
benefits
X Provide automatic equity vesting upon a change-in-
control (except for the provisions in our equity plans that 
apply to all employees if an acquiring company does not 
assume or substitute our outstanding stock awards)
X Give NEOs supplemental retirement benefits or 
perquisites that are not available to all employees
X Provide tax gross-ups
X Reprice stock options without stockholder approval
X Use discretion in performance incentive award 
determination
X Pay dividends or the equivalent on unearned or 
unvested shares
How We Determine Executive Compensation
Our CC manages our executive compensation program according to the cycle below:
In the Fall of 2017, management and a member of our Board again conducted outreach to stockholders regarding 
executive pay, which the CC considered as it determined our Fiscal 2019 compensation program.
Roles of the CC, Compensation Consultant and Management
Our CC solicits the input of Mr. Huang and the CC’s independent compensation consultant, Exequity, which reports directly 
to our CC.  The roles of our CC, Exequity, and management, including our CEO, CFO, and Human Resources and Legal 
departments, in setting our Fiscal 2018 NEO compensation program are summarized below.
At the CC’s direction, Exequity and management recommended a peer group for our program, which was approved by the 
CC.  Management then gathered peer data from the Radford Global Technology Survey, which was considered by Exequity 
in its analysis of Mr. Huang’s Fiscal 2018 compensation, and by Mr. Huang in his recommendations on Other NEOs’ Fiscal 
2018 compensation.  The CC considered Exequity’s advice, Mr. Huang’s recommendations, and management’s proposed 
Fiscal 2018 performance goals prior to making its final and sole decision on all Fiscal 2018 NEO compensation.  The CC 
also certified performance-based Fiscal 2017 compensation payouts.  Additionally, Exequity advised the CC on the 
compensation risk analysis prepared by management.

--- Page 47 ---
30
During Fiscal 2018, our CC continued to use Exequity for its experience working with our CC and with compensation 
committees at other technology companies.  Our CC analyzed whether Exequity’s role in Fiscal 2018 raised any conflict of 
interest, considering:  (i) Exequity does not provide any services directly to NVIDIA (although we pay Exequity on the CC’s 
behalf), (ii) the percentage of Exequity’s total revenue resulting from fees paid by us on the CC’s behalf, (iii) Exequity’s conflict 
of interest policies and procedures, (iv) any business or personal relationship between Exequity and an NEO, or between 
Exequity’s individual compensation advisors and an NEO or any member of our CC, and (v) any NVIDIA stock owned by 
Exequity or its individual compensation advisors.  After considering these factors, our CC determined that Exequity’s work 
did not create any conflict of interest.
Peer Companies and Market Compensation Data
Our Fiscal 2018 peer companies (1) compete with us for executive talent; (2) have established businesses, market presence, 
and complexity similar to us; and (3) are of similar size to us, as measured by revenue and market capitalization at roughly 
0.5-3.5x of us.  Our peer group for Fiscal 2018 remained the same as it was for Fiscal 2017, except as noted below: 
Fiscal 2018 Peer Group (1)
Activision Blizzard Applied Materials (2) Intuit, Inc. Symantec Corporation VMWare
Adobe Systems, Incorporated Autodesk, Inc. Lam Research Tesla Motors, Inc. Western Digital (2)
Advanced Micro Devices eBay (2) Micron Technology, Inc. Texas Instruments (2) Xilinx
Analog Devices, Inc. Electronic Arts, Inc. Network Appliance, Inc.
(1) Agilent Technologies, Inc., Citrix Systems Inc., and Juniper Networks, Inc., each a Fiscal 2017 peer, were removed for Fiscal 2018 because their 
respective revenue and market capitalization fell below our targeted range.
(2) Added for similar industry and similar revenue to us.
The CC determined our Fiscal 2018 peer group in February 2017.  At that time, our Fiscal 2017 revenue and market 
capitalization compared to our peer group companies as follows:
Revenue Market Capitalization
Fiscal 2018 Peer Group $2.21 billion - $13.00 billion $10.89 billion - $75.44 billion
NVIDIA $6.91 billion $62.73 billion
Our CC reviews market practices and compensation data from the Radford survey for peer companies’ comparably-situated 
executives when determining the components of our executive compensation program as well as total compensation.  The 
CC compares the total compensation opportunity for our NEOs and similarly-situated executives at the 25th, 50th and 75th 
percentiles of peer company data.  Our CC determines NEO compensation opportunities, informed by this data and 
considering the factors below.
Factors Used in Determining Executive Compensation
Our CC considers the following factors in establishing executive compensation. The weight given to each factor may differ 
among NEOs and each component of pay, and is subject to the CC’s sole discretion.
The need to attract and retain talent in a highly 
competitive industry
Stockholder feedback regarding our executive pay
An NEO’s past performance and anticipated future 
contributions
Our financial performance and forecasted results
The 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles of compensation 
and trends for similarly situated executives at peer 
companies, derived from the Radford Global Technology 
Survey
The need to motivate NEOs to address new business 
challenges
Each NEO’s current total compensation
Internal pay equity relative to similarly situated 
executives and the scope and complexity of the 
department or function the NEO manages 
Our CEO’s recommendations for the other NEOs, 
including his understanding of each NEO’s performance, 
capabilities, contributions
Each NEO’s unvested equity
Our CC’s independent judgment
Our philosophy that an NEO’s total compensation 
opportunity and percentage of at-risk pay should increase 
with responsibility
The total compensation cost and stockholder dilution 
from executive compensation, to maintain a responsible 
cost structure for our compensation programs*
*    See Note 2, Stock-Based Compensation of our Form 10-K consolidated financial statements for a discussion of stock-based compensation cost.

--- Page 48 ---
31
Components of Pay and Pay Mix
The primary components of NVIDIA’s Fiscal 2018 executive compensation program are summarized below:
Fixed
Compensation At-Risk Compensation
Base Salary Variable Cash SY PSUs MY PSUs RSUs*
Form Cash Cash Equity Equity Equity
Who Receives NEOs NEOs NEOs NEOs NEOs except Mr. Huang
When Granted
or
Determined
Annually in Fiscal
Q1
Annually in Fiscal
Q1
On the 6th business day of
March
On the 6th business day of
March
On the 6th business days
of March and of
September
When Paid or
Earned
Paid retroactively
to start of fiscal
year, via biweekly
payroll
If performance
threshold achieved,
earned after fiscal
year end, paid in
March
Shares eligible to vest
determined after fiscal year
end based on performance
metric achievement
Shares eligible to vest
determined after 3rd fiscal
year end based on
performance metric
achievement
On each vesting date,
subject to the NEO’s
continued service on each
such date
Performance
Measure
N/A Revenue
(determines cash
payout)
Non-GAAP Operating
Income (determines
number of shares eligible
to vest)
TSR relative to the S&P 500
(determines number of
shares eligible to vest)
N/A
Performance
Period
N/A 1 year 1 year 3 years N/A
Vesting
Period
N/A N/A 4 years 3 years 4 years
Vesting
Terms
N/A N/A If performance threshold
achieved, 25% on
approximately the 1-year
anniversary of the date of
grant; 6.25% quarterly
thereafter
If performance threshold
achieved, 100% on
approximately the 3-year
anniversary of the date of
grant
25% on approximately the
1-year anniversary of the
date of grant; 6.25%
quarterly thereafter
Timeframe
Emphasized
Annual Annual Long-term Long-term Long-term
Maximum
Amount That
Can Be
Earned
N/A 200% of target
award opportunity
under our Variable
Cash Plan
150% of Mr. Huang’s SY 
PSU target opportunity and 
200% of the Other NEOs’ 
respective SY PSU target 
opportunity
Ultimate value delivered 
depends on stock price on 
date earned shares vest
150% of Mr. Huang’s MY 
PSU target opportunity and 
200% of the Other NEOs’ 
respective MY PSU target 
opportunity
Ultimate value delivered 
depends on stock price on 
date earned shares vest
100% of grant
Ultimate value delivered 
depends on stock price on 
date shares vest
* Our CC considers RSUs to be at-risk pay because the realized value depends on our stock price, which is a financial performance measure.
In addition, we maintain medical, vision, dental and accidental death and disability insurance as well as time off and paid 
holidays for all of our NEOs, on the same basis as our other employees.  Like our other full-time employees, our NEOs are 
eligible to participate in our 401(k) plan, which includes a company match, and 2012 ESPP, unless otherwise prohibited by 
the rules of the Internal Revenue Service. For calendar 2017, we matched, on a dollar-for-dollar basis, each participant’s 
salary deferral contributions to the 401(k) plan, up to a maximum of $4,000, provided the participant was an employee on 
December 31, 2017. Each of our NEOs who participated in our 401(k) plan received a $4,000 match in Fiscal 2018. 

--- Page 49 ---
32
The charts below illustrate the Fiscal 2018 target pay mix of Mr. Huang and the Other NEOs.  Variable cash values represent 
the cash opportunity under the Variable Cash Plan upon achievement of target performance, and equity values represent 
the target value of the equity opportunities the CC intended to deliver at the time it approved the awards.
Fiscal 2018 CEO Target Pay Mix                
Fiscal 2018 Other NEOs Target Pay Mix
Compensation Actions and Achievements
Stockholder Outreach
We value stockholder feedback and conduct an annual stockholder outreach program.  During the Fall of 2016, we contacted 
our top 20 institutional stockholders (except for certain brokerage firms and institutional stockholders that do not engage 
in direct conversations with companies), representing an aggregate ownership of approximately 55% of our shares.  A 
member of our Board and members of management discussed executive compensation with representatives of stockholders 
holding an aggregate of approximately 31% of our common stock.  After considering their feedback, our CC concluded that 
our program effectively aligned executive pay with stockholder interests.  Therefore, rather than make major structural 
changes, the CC refined our Fiscal 2018 program to strengthen the link between corporate performance and NEO pay even 
further, including increasing the proportion of NEO compensation that is at-risk and performance-based. 
In the Fall of 2017, our management and a member of our Board again engaged in stockholder outreach.  The CC considered 
the feedback from these meetings in making decisions regarding our Fiscal 2019 executive compensation program. 
Total Target Compensation Approach
In deciding Fiscal 2018 compensation, our CC reviewed and considered each NEO’s total target pay opportunity, as well as 
how that opportunity was distributed across different pay elements.  As part of that process, our CC compared Mr. Huang’s 
base salary, target variable cash opportunity, target equity opportunity, and total target pay against chief executives of our 
peer companies.  For the Other NEOs, our CC reviewed their respective total target pay against similarly situated executives 
of our peers.  The CC considered the factors discussed above in Factors Used in Determining Executive Compensation, the 
CC’s specific compensation objectives for Fiscal 2018 and, for the Other NEOs, Mr. Huang’s recommendation.  Our CC did 
not use a single formula or assign a specific weight to any one factor in determining each NEO’s target pay.  Rather, our CC 
used its business judgment and experience to set total target compensation, mix of cash and equity, and fixed and at-risk 
pay opportunities for each NEO to achieve our program’s objectives.  When the CC set each element of pay for an NEO, it 
considered that change in the context of the levels of the other pay elements, and the resulting total target pay for such 
NEO, which fell between the 50th and 75th percentile of the peer market data.  These amounts and structure allowed our 
NEOs to realize above-market value from equity awards and variable cash incentives only upon exceptional corporate 
performance.  

--- Page 50 ---
33
Continued Emphasis on Long-Term, At-Risk, Performance-Based Equity Awards
For Fiscal 2018, the CC decided that long-term, at-risk, performance-based equity awards would again comprise a 
meaningful portion of NEO total target compensation.  Accordingly, our NEOs received a substantial proportion of their total 
target compensation in the form of at-risk, performance-based equity awards.   The CC continued to emphasize long-term 
equity awards by making the largest portion of NEO target pay long-term equity incentives and increasing the target value 
of the PSU components.  Overall, the CC sought to enhance the long-term, at-risk opportunities to drive results and increase 
NEO and stockholder alignment, while providing sufficient annual cash compensation to be competitive and retain our NEOs.  
The PSUs and RSUs provide long-term incentives and retention benefits because our NEOs must remain with us for a multi-
year period (3 years for MY PSUs and 4 years for SY PSUs and RSUs) and, for PSUs, only if the performance goal is achieved, 
to fully vest in the awards.
The CC concluded that a majority of the NEOs’ target equity opportunity should be at-risk and performance-based, and that, 
given Mr. Huang’s position as CEO, 100% of his grant should be at-risk and performance-based, tightly aligning his interests 
with stockholders.  For the Other NEOs, the CC decided to provide roughly 70% of the target equity opportunity in the form 
of PSUs and 30% of the target equity opportunity in the form of RSUs, subject to individual adjustments determined 
appropriate by the CC.  The CC decided to grant Mr. Huang’s target equity opportunity 100% in the form of SY PSUs (which 
value is aligned with our Non-GAAP Operating Income performance) and MY PSUs (which value is aligned with our relative 
stock price performance). 
The CC evaluated market positioning, internal pay equity, individual performance, and level of unvested equity to determine 
a target equity opportunity value for Mr. Huang and our Other NEOs. To determine actual shares awarded to achieve the 
target value, the CC used the 120-day trailing average of our stock price, as opposed to our stock price on the grant date, 
reducing the impact of daily volatility on compensation decisions.  This average determined the number of RSUs and the 
target number of SY PSUs and MY PSUs.  
Our CC structured RSUs grants to the Other NEOs in two installments in order to re-assess our executive equity compensation 
mid-year.  At the beginning of Fiscal 2018, the CC determined a total annual RSU award value for each of the Other NEOs 
and made initial grants of RSUs representing 50% of that value.  In mid-Fiscal 2018, the CC reduced the number of RSUs 
awarded in the second biannual grant by approximately 40%, which they believed appropriately adjusted for the increase 
in our stock price since early Fiscal 2018.  
The target numbers of SY PSU and MY PSU shares for each NEO were the numbers of shares eligible to vest upon our 
achievement of the Base Operating Plan Non-GAAP Operating Income performance goal for Fiscal 2018, and the Base 
Operating Plan TSR performance goal over a 3-year period relative to the S&P 500, respectively.  No shares were eligible 
to vest if Threshold performance was not achieved.   Shares underlying any PSUs that are not earned are cancelled.
If we achieved at least Threshold performance, the minimum number of shares eligible to vest was 50% of the SY PSU 
target opportunity and 25% of the MY PSU target opportunity.  The maximum number of shares eligible to vest was capped 
at 150% of Mr. Huang’s SY PSU and MY PSU target opportunities and 200% of the Other NEOs’ respective SY PSU and MY 
PSU target opportunities if we achieved respective Stretch Operating Plan performance.  25% of the eligible SY PSU shares 
would vest on approximately the one-year anniversary of the grant date and 6.25% of the eligible SY PSU shares would 
vest every quarter thereafter over the next three years, subject to each NEO’s continued service with us. All of the eligible 
MY PSUs would vest following the end of the 3-year performance period.  
Adjustments to Cash Compensation
While the CC emphasized performance-based equity awards, it also recognized that we had not adjusted certain NEOs’ 
cash compensation in recent years.  Accordingly, the CC increased the target variable cash compensation for all NEOs and 
increased NEO base salaries to provide competitive cash compensation relative to our peer companies.  Mr. Huang’s salary 
was at the median of peer chief executive officers, and therefore did not receive a salary increase.  As Mr. Teter had joined 
NVIDIA in late Fiscal 2017, the CC did not adjust the base salary or target variable cash stated in his offer letter.

--- Page 51 ---
34
Goals for Certain Performance-Based Compensation
Based on the Fiscal 2018 strategic plan as approved by the Board, the CC set the following performance metrics and goals: 
Variable Cash Plan SY PSUs MY PSUs
Metric Revenue Non-GAAP Operating Income TSR relative to the S&P 500
Timeframe 1 year 1 year 3 years
CC’s
Rationale
for Metric
Key indicator of our annual 
performance which drives value 
and contributes to Company’s long-
term success
Our executive team focuses on 
growth in the Company's 
specialized markets where our 
technologies did not previously 
exist; revenue growth a strong 
predictor of the Company's future 
success
Distinct, separate metric from Non-
GAAP Operating Income
Key indicator of our annual 
performance which drives value 
and contributes to Company’s long-
term success
Reflects both our annual revenue 
generation and
effective management of operating 
expenses
To ensure long-term performance 
emphasis, structured to vest over a 
4-year period
Aligns directly with shareholder 
value creation over a 3-year period
Provides direct comparison of our 
stock price performance (including 
dividends) against an index that 
represents a broader capital 
market
with which we compete
Relative (as opposed to absolute) 
nature of goals accounts for 
macroeconomic factors impacting 
the broader market
Performance
Goal
Shares Eligible 
to Vest as a % of 
Target 
Opportunity(2)
Performance
Goal
Shares Eligible 
to Vest as a % of 
Target 
Opportunity(2)
Performance
Goal
Shares Eligible 
to Vest as a % of 
Target 
Opportunity(2)
Threshold(1) $7.20 billion 50% $1.99 billion 50% 25th percentile 25%
Base
Operating
Plan
$7.70 billion 100% $2.28 billion 100% 50th percentile 100%
Stretch
Operating
Plan
$9.00 billion 200% $3.15 billion 150% for Mr.
Huang; 200% for
the Other NEOs
75th percentile 150% for Mr.
Huang; 200% for
the Other NEOs
(1) Achievement less than the Threshold goal would result in no payout.
(2) For achievement between Threshold and Base Operating Plan and between Base Operating Plan and Stretch Operating Plan, payouts would be 
determined using straight-line interpolation.
CC’s Rationale for Performance Goals
The CC set performance goals to achieve the program’s objectives, with the following rationales:
Variable
Cash Plan
SY
PSUs
MY
PSUs
Stretch Operating Plan goals required significant achievement; only possible with strong market
factors and a very high level of management execution and corporate performance
Base Operating Plan goals:
• Uncertain, but attainable with significant effort and execution success 
• Included budgeted investments in future growth businesses and revenue growth (and, for SY 
PSUs and MY PSUs, gross margin growth) considering both macroeconomic conditions and 
reasonable but challenging growth estimates for our ongoing and new businesses
• Set higher than Fiscal 2017 actual revenue and actual Non-GAAP Operating Income, as 
applicable, to recognize strong growth performance
• Relative TSR performance must be at or above 50th percentile of market to earn awards at 
competitive compensation levels
Threshold goals appropriately decelerated payout for performance below Base Operating Plan;
uncertain, but attainable and high enough to create modest value


--- Page 52 ---
35
Fiscal 2018 Achievement
The CC reviewed our Fiscal 2018 financial results against the performance goals set at the beginning of the year for our 
Variable Cash Plan, SY PSUs and MY PSUs:
Variable Cash Plan
For Fiscal 2018, we reported record revenue of $9.714 billion, resulting in a payout under our Fiscal 2018 Variable Cash 
Plan of 200% of the target opportunity. 
SY PSUs 
For Fiscal 2018, we reported record Non-GAAP Operating Income of $3.617 billion, resulting in the maximum number of SY 
PSUs granted in Fiscal 2018 becoming eligible to vest at 150% of Mr. Huang’s SY PSU target opportunity and 200% of the 
Other NEOs’ respective SY PSU target opportunity.  25% of the eligible shares vested on March 21, 2018 and 6.25% of the 
eligible shares vest quarterly thereafter.


--- Page 53 ---
36
MY PSUs
The MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2016 completed the three-year performance measurement period on January 28, 2018.  
NVIDIA’s TSR over this three-year period was 971%, representing the 100th percentile of companies in the S&P 500, resulting 
in the maximum number of MY PSUs becoming eligible to vest at 150% of Mr. Huang’s MY PSU target opportunity and 200% 
of the Other NEOs’ respective MY PSU target opportunity.  100% of the eligible shares vested on March 21, 2018. 
Achievement of the MY PSU goals for grants in Fiscal 2017 will be determined after January 27, 2019, the ending date of 
the three-year measurement period for the MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2017.
Achievement of the MY PSU goals for grants in Fiscal 2018 will be determined after January 26, 2020, the ending date of 
the three-year measurement period for the MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2018.
Target Fiscal 2018 Compensation Actions
The CC’s target Fiscal 2018 compensation actions are summarized below for each NEO, reflecting the target value of the 
variable cash and equity opportunities the CC intended to deliver.  The CC considered the factors set forth in Factors Used 
in Determining Executive Compensation above and focused primarily on the total target pay opportunity for each NEO.
JEN-HSUN HUANG Target Pay ($) Fiscal 2018 Compensation Actions
President, CEO & Director    Base Salary 1,000,000 No change
   Variable Cash 1,100,000 Up 10%, after no increase in 3 years; earned at $2,200,000
Equity 9,877,800 Up 14%
   SY PSUs 6,601,500 Target award opportunity of 67,500 shares; 101,250 shares became
eligible to vest
   MY PSUs 3,276,300 Target award opportunity of 33,500 shares
Total 11,977,800 Up 13%, to balance external market competitiveness with other chief
executive officers at our peers and internal pay equity with our other
NEOs, resulting in pay at the 50th percentile relative to peer group


--- Page 54 ---
37
COLETTE M. KRESS Target Pay ($) Fiscal 2018 Compensation Actions
EVP & CFO    Base Salary 900,000 Up 16%, after no increase in 3 years
   Variable Cash 300,000 Up 9%, after no increase in 3 years; earned at $600,000
Equity 3,281,500 Up 9%, primarily due to increase in PSUs
   SY PSUs 2,050,938 Target award opportunity of 19,500 shares; 39,000 shares became
eligible to vest
   MY PSUs 210,353 Target award opportunity of 2,000 shares
   RSUs 1,020,210 Granted 9,700 shares
Total 4,481,500 Up 10%, to balance external market competitiveness with other peer
chief financial officers and internal pay equity with our other NEOs,
resulting in pay at the 50th-65th percentile relative to peer group
AJAY K. PURI Target Pay ($) Fiscal 2018 Compensation Actions
EVP, WW Field Operations    Base Salary 950,000 Up 6%, after a minimal increase in the prior period
   Variable Cash 650,000 Up 30% to maintain variable cash as a meaningful portion of pay and
due to revenue-generating leadership position and role in helping the
Company to enter new markets; earned at $1,300,000
Equity 3,378,850 Up 8%, primarily due to increase in PSUs
   SY PSUs 2,105,202 Target award opportunity of 20,000 shares; 40,000 shares became
eligible to vest
   MY PSUs 210,520 Target award opportunity of 2,000 shares
   RSUs 1,063,127 Granted 10,100 shares
Total 4,978,850 Up 10%, due to revenue-generating leadership position and role in
helping the Company to enter new markets and to maintain internal
pay equity with other NEOs, resulting in pay at the 65th-75th
percentile relative to peer group
DEBORA SHOQUIST Target Pay ($) Fiscal 2018 Compensation Actions
EVP, Operations    Base Salary 850,000 Up 21%, after no increase in 3 years
   Variable Cash 250,000 Up 67%, after no increase in 3 years and to provide consistent
leverage with other NEOs; earned at $500,000
Equity 2,404,450 Up 14%, primarily due to increase in PSUs
   SY PSUs 1,522,468 Target award opportunity of 14,500 shares; 29,000 shares became
eligible to vest
   MY PSUs 157,497 Target award opportunity of 1,500 shares
   RSUs 724,485 Granted 6,900 shares
Total 3,504,450 Up 19%, due to responsibility and scope as head of chips and
systems operations, facilities, and information technology, and to
maintain internal pay equity with other NEOs, resulting in pay at the
75th percentile relative to peer group
TIMOTHY S. TETER Target Pay ($) Fiscal 2018 Compensation Actions*
EVP, GC & Secretary    Base Salary 850,000 Set to maintain internal pay equity with other NEOs
   Variable Cash 250,000 Set to maintain internal pay equity with other NEOs; earned at
$500,000
Equity 5,800,000 Granted 48,700 RSUs as a new-hire award, which our CC assessed
was necessary to recruit Mr. Teter and to provide him with an
opportunity to earn a significant ownership stake in the Company;
25% vested on March 21, 2018 and 6.25% vests quarterly thereafter
Total 6,900,000 Due to responsibility as head of legal and new-hire grant, at 65th
percentile relative to peer group
* Excludes an anniversary bonus of $450,000 paid in Fiscal 2018 pursuant to Mr. Teter’s offer letter (which must be repaid upon a resignation or termination 
under certain circumstances occurring prior to his second anniversary of employment in Fiscal 2019).  The CC determined that this special bonus was 
necessary to attract Mr. Teter, in consideration of his compensation opportunity at his prior employer.


--- Page 55 ---
38
Additional Executive Compensation Practices, Policies, and Procedures 
Stock Ownership Guidelines
The Board believes that executive officers should hold a significant equity interest in NVIDIA. Our Corporate Governance 
Policies require the CEO to hold shares of our common stock valued at six times his base salary, and our other NEOs to 
hold shares of our common stock valued at the NEO’s respective base salary.  NEOs have up to five years from appointment 
to reach the ownership threshold.  The stock ownership guidelines are intended to further align NEO interests with 
stockholder interests.  Each of our NEOs currently exceeds the stock ownership requirements. 
Compensation Recovery (“Clawback”) Policy
In April 2009, our Board adopted a Compensation Recovery Policy for all employees.  Under this policy, if we are required 
to prepare an accounting restatement to correct an accounting error on an interim or annual financial statement included 
in a report on Form 10-Q or Form 10-K due to material noncompliance with any financial reporting requirement under the 
federal securities laws, or a Restatement, and if the Board or a committee of independent directors concludes that our CEO, 
our CFO or any other employee received a variable compensation payment that would not have been payable if the original 
interim or annual financial statements had reflected the Restatement, which we refer to as the Overpayment, then:
• Our CEO and our CFO will disgorge the net after-tax portion of the Overpayment; and
• The Board or the committee of independent directors in its sole discretion may require any other employee to repay 
the Overpayment.  In using its discretion, the Board or the independent committee may consider whether such 
person was involved in the preparation of our financial statements or otherwise caused the need for the Restatement 
and may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, recoup amounts by (1) requiring partial or full repayment by 
such person of any variable or incentive compensation or any gains realized on the exercise of stock options or on 
the open-market sale of vested shares, (2) canceling up to all and any outstanding equity awards held by such 
person and/or (3) adjusting the future compensation of such person.  
We will review and update the Compensation Recovery Policy as necessary for compliance with the clawback policy 
provisions of the Dodd Frank Act when the final regulations related to that policy are issued.
Tax and Accounting Implications
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code disallows a deduction to any publicly-held corporation and its affiliates for 
certain compensation paid to “covered employees” in a taxable year to the extent that compensation exceeds $1 million 
per covered employee.  Prior to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in December 2017, Section 162(m)-qualified 
“performance-based compensation” was not subject to this deduction limitation.  Pursuant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, 
the Section 162(m) performance-based compensation exception was repealed with respect to taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2017, except that certain transition relief is provided for remuneration provided pursuant to a written binding 
contract which was in effect on November 2, 2017 and which was not modified in any material respect on or after such 
date.  As a result, compensation paid to any of our covered employees in excess of $1 million per taxable year generally 
will not be deductible unless, among other requirements, it is intended to qualify, and is eligible to qualify, as Section 162(m) 
performance-based compensation pursuant to the transition relief provided by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.  Because of 
certain ambiguities and uncertainties as to the application and interpretation of Section 162(m) and the regulations issued 
thereunder, including the uncertain scope of the transition relief provided by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, no assurance can 
be given that any compensation paid by NVIDIA will be eligible for such transition relief and, therefore, eligible for the Section 
162(m) performance-based compensation exception.  The CC will continue to monitor the applicability of Section 162(m) 
to our ongoing compensation arrangements and intends to continue to compensate our NEOs in a manner consistent with 
the best interests of NVIDIA and our stockholders.
Our CC also considers the impact of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, and in general, our executive plans and 
programs are designed to comply with the requirements of that section to avoid the possible adverse tax consequences 
that may arise from non-compliance.

--- Page 56 ---
39
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
A reconciliation between our Non-GAAP Operating Income and GAAP operating income is as follows (in millions):
  Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017
GAAP operating income $ 3,210 $ 1,934
Stock-based compensation expense 391   248
Acquisition-related costs 13   16
Contributions 2   4
Legal settlement costs 1   16
Restructuring and other charges — 3
Non-GAAP Operating Income $ 3,617 $ 2,221
Risk Analysis of Our Compensation Plans
With the oversight of the CC, members from the Company’s legal, human resources and finance departments, collectively 
Management, and Exequity, the independent consultant engaged by the CC, performed an assessment of the Company’s 
compensation programs and policies for Fiscal 2018 as generally applicable to our employees to ascertain any potential 
material risks that may be created by our compensation programs.  The assessment focused on programs with variability 
of payout and the ability of participants to directly affect payout and the controls over participant action and payout.  
Specifically, Management and Exequity reviewed the Company’s variable cash compensation, equity compensation, and 
sales incentive compensation programs.  Management and Exequity identified the key terms of these programs, potential 
concerns regarding risk taking behavior and specific risk mitigation features.  Management’s assessment was first 
presented to our Senior Vice President, Human Resources, our CFO and our General Counsel.  The assessment was then 
presented to the CC.
The CC considered the findings of the assessment described above and concluded that our compensation programs, which 
are structured to recognize both short-term and long-term contributions to the Company, do not create risks which are 
reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition.  
The CC believes that the following compensation design features guard against excessive risk-taking: 
Compensation Design Features that Guard Against Excessive Risk-Taking
Our compensation program encourages our employees to remain focused on both our short-term and long-
term goals
We design our variable cash and PSU compensation programs for executives so that payouts are based on
achievement of corporate performance targets, and we cap the potential award payout
We have internal controls over our financial accounting and reporting which is used to measure and
determine the eligible compensation awards under our Variable Cash Plan and our SY PSUs
Financial plan target goals and final awards under our Variable Cash Plan and our SY PSUs are approved by
the CC and consistent with the annual operating plan approved by the full Board each year
MY PSUs are designed with a relative goal
We have a compensation recovery policy applicable to all employees that allows NVIDIA to recover
compensation paid in situations of fraud or material financial misconduct
All executive officer equity awards have multi-year vesting
We have stock ownership guidelines that we believe are reasonable and are designed to align our executive
officers’ interests with those of our stockholders
We enforce a “no-hedging” policy and a “no-pledging” policy involving our common stock which prevents our
employees from insulating themselves from the effects of NVIDIA stock price performance

--- Page 57 ---
40
Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016
The following table summarizes information regarding the compensation earned by our NEOs during Fiscal 2018, 2017, 
and 2016.  Fiscal 2018 and 2017 were 52-week years and Fiscal 2016 was a 53-week year.
Name and Principal
Position
Fiscal
Year
Salary
($)
Bonus
($)
Stock
Awards    
($) (1)
Non-Equity
Incentive Plan
Compensation
($) (2)
All Other
Compensation
($)
Total
($)
Jen-Hsun Huang 2018 999,985 — 9,787,985 2,200,000 5,562
(3)
12,993,532
President and CEO 2017 996,216 — 9,188,400 2,000,000 5,622
(3)
12,190,238
2016 1,018,941 — 7,456,900 1,490,566 4,694
(3)
9,971,101
Colette M. Kress 2018 899,120 — 3,327,973 600,000 6,622
(4)
4,833,715
Executive Vice President
and CFO 2017 769,609 — 3,299,770 550,000 4,286
(4)
4,623,665
2016 789,680 1,000,000 (5) 2,692,935 409,906 3,710
(4)
4,896,231
Ajay K. Puri 2018 949,640 — 3,425,382 1,300,000 12,844
(6)
5,687,866
Executive Vice President,
Worldwide Field Operations 2017 889,573 — 3,378,130 1,000,000 11,283
(6)
5,278,986
2016 891,574 — 2,865,555 708,019 10,096
(6)
4,475,244
Debora Shoquist 2018 848,947 — 2,438,904 500,000 11,524
(4)
3,799,375
Executive Vice President,
Operations 2017 695,131 — 2,278,170 300,000 10,024
(4)
3,283,325
2016 713,259 — 1,977,660 223,585 9,524
(4)
2,924,028
Timothy S. Teter (7)
2018 849,988 — 5,668,193 500,000 2,622
(8)
7,020,803
Executive Vice President,
General Counsel and
Secretary
2017 14,752 — — — — 14,752
2016 — — — — — —
(1) Amounts shown in this column do not reflect dollar amounts actually received by the NEO. Instead, these amounts reflect the aggregate full grant 
date fair value calculated in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 for the respective fiscal year for grants of RSUs, SY PSUs and MY PSUs, as applicable. 
The assumptions used in the calculation of values of the awards are set forth under Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements titled Stock-
Based Compensation in our Form 10-K.  With regard to the NEOs’ stock awards with performance-based vesting conditions, the reported grant date 
fair value assumes the probable outcome of the conditions at Base Operating Plan, determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards. 
Based on Stretch Operating Plan performance in Fiscal 2018, the respective grant date fair values of SY PSUs and MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2018 
would be $9,759,488 and $4,922,490 for Mr. Huang, $3,759,210 and $501,000 for Ms. Kress, $3,855,600 and $501,000 for Mr. Puri, and $2,795,310 
and $375,750 for Ms. Shoquist.  Based on Stretch Operating Plan performance in Fiscal 2017, the respective grant date fair values of SY PSUs and 
MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2017 would be $8,920,500 and $4,862,100 for Mr. Huang, $3,474,300 and $519,720 for Ms. Kress, $3,599,500 and $519,720 
for Mr. Puri and $2,441,400 and $346,480 for Ms. Shoquist. Based on Stretch Operating Plan performance in Fiscal 2016, the respective grant date 
fair values of SY PSUs and MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2016 would be $7,108,200 and $4,077,150 for Mr. Huang, $2,972,520 and $472,950 for Ms. 
Kress, $3,101,760 and $472,950 for Mr. Puri and $2,154,000 and $378,360 for Ms. Shoquist. 
(2) As applicable, reflects amounts earned in Fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016 and paid in March or April following each respective year pursuant to our 
Variable Cash Plan for each respective year. For further information please see our Compensation Discussion and Analysis above.
(3) Represents a contribution to a health savings account and imputed income from life insurance coverage. These benefits are available to all eligible 
NVIDIA employees. 
(4) Represents a match of contributions to our 401(k) savings plan and imputed income from life insurance coverage.  These benefits are available to 
all eligible NVIDIA employees. 
(5) Represents an anniversary bonus paid in Fiscal 2015 that was earned in Fiscal 2016.
(6) Represents a match of contributions to our 401(k) savings plan, a contribution to a health savings account and imputed income from life insurance 
coverage.  These benefits are available to all eligible NVIDIA employees.  
(7) Mr. Teter joined the Company in January of 2017.
(8) Represents imputed income from life insurance coverage. This benefit is available to all eligible NVIDIA employees. 

--- Page 58 ---
41
Grants of Plan-Based Awards for Fiscal 2018 
The following table provides information regarding all grants of plan-based awards that were made to or earned by our 
NEOs during Fiscal 2018. Disclosure on a separate line item is provided for each grant of an award made to an NEO. The 
information in this table supplements the dollar value of stock and other awards set forth in the Summary Compensation 
Table for Fiscal Years 2018, 2017 and 2016 by providing additional details about the awards.  The PSUs and RSUs set forth 
in the following table were made under our 2007 Plan. PSUs are eligible to vest based on performance against pre-
established criteria.  Both SY PSUs and RSUs are subject to service-based vesting.
Name
Grant
Date
Approval
Date
Estimated Possible Payouts Under 
Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards (1)
Estimated Future Payouts Under
Equity Incentive Plan Awards
All Other 
Stock
Awards: 
Number of 
Shares of 
Stock
or Units (#)
Grant Date
Fair Value
of Stock
Awards ($) (2)
Threshold
($)
Target
($)
Maximum
($)
Threshold
(#)
Target
(#)
Maximum
(#)
Jen-Hsun
Huang
3/8/17 3/7/17
(3)
— 33,750 67,500 101,250 —
  
6,506,325
(4)
3/8/17 3/7/17
(5)
— 8,375 33,500 50,250 — 3,281,660
3/7/17 3/7/17 550,000 1,100,000 2,200,000 — — —
Colette M.
Kress
3/8/17 3/7/17
(3)
— 9,750 19,500 39,000 — 1,879,605
(4)
3/8/17 3/7/17
(5)
— 500 2,000 4,000 — 250,500
3/8/17 3/7/17 — — 6,000
(6)
578,340
9/12/17 8/23/17 — — 3,700
(7)
619,528
3/7/17 3/7/17 150,000 300,000 600,000 — — —
Ajay K.
Puri
3/8/17 3/7/17
(3)
— 10,000 20,000 40,000 —
  
1,927,800
(4)
3/8/17 3/7/17
(5)
— 500 2,000 4,000 — 250,500
3/8/17 3/7/17 — — 6,250
(6)
602,438
9/12/17 8/23/17 — — 3,850
(7)
644,644
3/7/17 3/7/17 325,000 650,000 1,300,000 — — —
Debora
Shoquist
3/8/17 3/7/17
(3)
— 7,250 14,500 29,000 —
  
1,397,655
(4)
3/8/17 3/7/17
(5)
— 375 1,500 3,000 — 187,875
3/8/17 3/7/17 — — 4,250
(6)
409,658
9/12/17 8/23/17 — — 2,650
(7)
443,716
3/7/17 3/7/17 125,000 250,000 500,000 — — —
Timothy
S. Teter
2/8/17 1/26/17 — — 48,700
(8)
5,668,193
3/7/17 3/7/17 125,000 250,000 500,000 — — —
(1) Represents range of awards payable under our 2018 Variable Cash Plan.
(2) Amounts shown in this column do not reflect dollar amounts actually received by the NEO. Instead, these amounts reflect the aggregate full grant 
date fair value calculated in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 for the awards. The assumptions used in the calculation of values of the awards 
are set forth under Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements titled Stock-Based Compensation in our Form 10-K. With regard to the stock 
awards with performance-based vesting conditions, the reported grant date fair value assumes the probable outcome of the conditions at Base 
Operating Plan, determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
(3) Represents range of possible shares able to be earned with respect to SY PSUs. 
(4) Based on the performance that was actually achieved for Fiscal 2018, the grant date fair value for the NEOs’ SY PSUs would be: $9,759,488 for Mr. 
Huang, $3,759,210 for Ms. Kress, $3,855,600 for Mr. Puri, and $2,795,310 for Ms. Shoquist.
(5) Represents range of possible shares able to be earned with respect to MY PSUs.
(6) Represents RSUs granted to Mr. Puri and Mses. Kress and Shoquist in the first quarter of Fiscal 2018 pursuant to the 2007 Plan. The CC approved 
these grants on March 7, 2017, for grant on March 8, 2017.
(7) Represents RSUs granted to Mr. Puri and Mses. Kress and Shoquist in the third quarter of Fiscal 2018 pursuant to the 2007 Plan. The CC approved 
these grants on August 23, 2017 for grant on September 12, 2017, the same day that semi-annual grants were made to all of our other eligible 
employees.
(8) Represents the initial grant of RSUs for Mr. Teter upon his employment with NVIDIA pursuant to the 2007 Plan.  The CC approved this grant on January 
26, 2017 for grant on February 8, 2017, the same day that monthly grants were made to all of our other eligible new hires.

--- Page 59 ---
42
Outstanding Equity Awards as of January 28, 2018
The following table presents information regarding outstanding equity awards held by our NEOs as of January 28, 2018. 
Name
Option Awards Stock Awards
Number of 
Securities
Underlying 
Unexercised
Options (#)
Exercisable
Number of 
Securities
Underlying 
Unexercised
Options (#)
Unexercisable
Option
Exercise
Price ($) (1)
Option
Expiration
Date
Number of
Units of Stock
That Have
Not Vested (#)
Market Value 
of Units of 
Stock That 
Have Not
Vested ($) (2)
Equity Incentive
Plan Awards:
Number of
Unearned Shares
That Have Not
Vested (#)
Equity Incentive 
Plan Awards: 
Market Value of 
Unearned Shares 
That Have Not
Vested ($) (2)
Jen-
Hsun
Huang
250,000 — 10.56 9/14/2020 —
  
— — —
250,000 — 17.62 3/17/2021 —
  
— — —
250,000 — 14.465 9/20/2021 —
  
— — —
300,000 — 14.46 3/20/2022 —
  
— — —
300,000 — 13.71 9/18/2022 —
  
— — —
237,500 — 12.62 3/19/2023 — — — —
237,500 — 16.00 9/17/2023 — — — —
— —
  
— — 75,000
(3)
18,249,750 — —
— — — — 123,750
(4)
30,112,088 — —
— —
  
— — 178,125
(5)
43,343,156 — —
— — — — 101,250
(6)
24,637,163 — —
— —
  
— — 165,000
(7)
40,149,450 — —
— — — — — — 142,500
(8)
34,674,525
— — — — — — 50,250
(9)
12,227,333
Colette
M. Kress
— — — — 19,375
(3)
4,714,519 — —
— — — — 3,250
(10)
790,823 — —
— — — — 6,500
(11)
1,581,645 — —
— — — — 8,438
(12)
2,053,219 — —
— — — — 51,750
(4)
12,592,328 — —
— — — — 11,250
(13)
2,737,463 — —
— — — — 69,375
(5)
16,881,019 — —
— — — — 12,032
(14)
2,927,747 — —
— — — — 7,907
(15)
1,924,010 — —
— — — — 6,000
(16)
1,459,980 — —
— — — — 39,000
(6)
9,489,870 — —
— — — — 3,700
(17)
900,321 — —
— — — — 15,000
(7)
3,649,950 — —
— — — — — — 12,000
(8)
2,919,960
— — — — — — 4,000
(9)
973,320
Ajay K.
Puri
2,875 — 12.62 3/19/2023 —
  
— — —
8,625 — 16.00 9/17/2023 —
  
— — —
— —
  
— — 16,250
(3)
3,954,113 — —
— —
  
— — 2,188
(10)
532,406 — —
— —
  
— — 4,375
(11)
1,064,569 — —
— —
  
— — 7,500
(12)
1,824,975 — —
— —
  
— — 54,000
(4)
13,139,820 — —
— —    — — 15,000
(13)
3,649,950 — —
— —    — — 71,875
(5)
17,489,344 — —
— —    — — 12,500
(14)
3,041,625 — —
— —    — — 8,250
(15)
2,007,473 — —
— —    — — 6,250
(16)
1,520,813 — —
— —    — — 40,000
(6)
9,733,200 — —
— —    — — 3,850
(17)
936,821 — —
— — — — 15,000
(7)
3,649,950 — —
— — — — — — 12,000
(8)
2,919,960
— — — — — — 4,000
(9)
973,320

--- Page 60 ---
43
Debora
Shoquist
— — — — 13,000
(3)
3,163,290 — —
— — — — 2,188
(10)
532,406 — —
— — — — 4,375
(11)
1,064,569 — —
— — — — 6,188
(12)
1,505,726 — —
— —
  
— — 37,500
(4)
9,124,875 — —
— —
  
— — 8,250
(13)
2,007,473 — —
— —
  
— — 48,750
(5)
11,862,338 — —
— —
  
— — 8,438
(14)
2,053,219 — —
— —
  
— — 5,500
(15)
1,338,315 — —
— —
  
— — 4,250
(16)
1,034,153 — —
— —
  
— — 29,000
(6)
7,056,570 — —
— —
  
— — 2,650
(17)
644,825 — —
— —
  
— — 12,000
(7)
2,919,960 — —
— —
  
— — — — 8,000
(8)
1,946,640
— —
  
— — — — 3,000
(9)
729,990
Timothy
S. Teter — —
  
— — 48,700
(16)
11,850,171 — —
(1) Unless otherwise noted, represents the closing price of our common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the date of grant which is the exercise price 
of stock option grants made pursuant to our 2007 Plan.
(2) Calculated by multiplying the number of RSUs or PSUs by the closing price ($243.33) of NVIDIA’s common stock on January 26, 2018, the last trading 
day before the end of our Fiscal 2018, as reported by NASDAQ.
(3) The RSU was earned on January 25, 2015 based on achievement of a pre-established performance goal.  The RSU vested as to 25% of the shares 
on March 18, 2015, and vested as to 12.50% approximately every six months thereafter over the next three years such that the RSU was vested on 
March 21, 2018.
(4) The RSU was earned on January 31, 2016 based on achievement of a pre-established performance goal.  The RSU vested as to 25% of the shares 
on March 16, 2016, and vests as to 12.50% approximately every six months thereafter over the next three years such that the RSU will be fully vested 
on March 20, 2019.
(5) The RSU was earned on January 29, 2017 based on achievement of a pre-established performance goal.  The RSU vested as to 25% of the shares 
on March 15, 2017, and vests as to 12.50% approximately every six months thereafter over the next three years such that the RSU will be fully vested 
on March 18, 2020.
(6) The RSU was earned on January 28, 2018 based on achievement of a pre-established performance goal.  The RSU vested as to 25% of the shares 
on March 21, 2018, and vests as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such that the RSU will be fully 
vested on March 17, 2021.
(7) The RSU was earned on January 28, 2018 based on achievement of a pre-established performance goal.  The RSU vested as to 100% of the shares 
on March 21, 2018.
(8) Represents the number of shares based on achieving Stretch Operating Plan performance goals.  The number of PSUs that will be earned, if at all, 
is based on our TSR relative to the S&P 500 from February 1, 2016 through January 27, 2019.  If the pre-established performance goal is achieved, 
the shares earned will vest as to 100% on March 20, 2019.  If the Threshold performance goal is achieved, 47,500 shares will be earned by Mr. Huang, 
3,000 shares will be earned by Ms. Kress, 3,000 shares will be earned by Mr. Puri and 2,000 shares will be earned by Ms. Shoquist.  If the Base 
Operating Plan performance goal is achieved, 95,000 shares will be earned by Mr. Huang, 6,000 shares will be earned by Ms. Kress, 6,000 shares 
will be earned by Mr. Puri, and 4,000 shares will be earned by Ms. Shoquist.
(9) Represents the number of shares based on achieving Stretch Operating Plan performance goals.  The number of PSUs that will be earned, if at all, 
is based on our TSR relative to the S&P 500 from January 30, 2017 through January 26, 2020.  If the pre-established performance goal is achieved, 
the shares earned will vest as to 100% on March 18, 2020.  If the Threshold performance goal is achieved, 8,375 shares will be earned by Mr. Huang, 
500 shares will be earned by Ms. Kress, 500 shares will be earned by Mr. Puri and 375 shares will be earned by Ms. Shoquist.  If the Base Operating 
Plan performance goal is achieved, 33,500 shares will be earned by Mr. Huang, 2,000 shares will be earned by Ms. Kress, 2,000 shares will be earned 
by Mr. Puri, and 1,500 shares will be earned by Ms. Shoquist.
(10) The RSU vested as to 25% on March 18, 2015, and vested as to 12.50% approximately every six months thereafter over the next three years such 
that the RSU was fully vested on March 21, 2018.
(11) The RSU vested as to 25% on September 16, 2015, and vests as to 12.50% approximately every six months thereafter over the next three years such 
that the RSU will be fully vested on September 19, 2018.
(12) The RSU vested as to 25% on March 16, 2016, and vests as to 12.50% approximately every six months thereafter over the next three years such that 
the RSU will be fully vested on March 20, 2019.
(13) The RSU vested as to 25% on September 21, 2016, and vests as to 12.50% approximately every six months thereafter over the next three years such 
that the RSU will be fully vested on September 18, 2019.
(14) The RSU vested as to 25% on March 15, 2017, and vests as to 12.50% approximately every six months thereafter over the next three years such that 
the RSU will be fully vested on March 18, 2020.
(15) The RSU vested as to 25% on September 20, 2017, and vests as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years 
such that the RSU will be fully vested on September 16, 2020.
(16) The RSU vested as to 25% on March 21, 2018, and vests as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years such 
that the RSU will be fully vested on March 17, 2021.
(17) The RSU will vest as to 25% on September 19, 2018, and vests as to 6.25% approximately every three months thereafter over the next three years 
such that the RSU will be fully vested on September 15, 2021.

--- Page 61 ---
44
Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Fiscal 2018
The following table shows information regarding option exercises and stock vested by our NEOs during Fiscal 2018.
Name
Option Awards Stock Awards
Number of
Shares Acquired on
Exercise (#)
Value
Realized
on Exercise ($) (1)
Number of
Shares Acquired on
Vesting (#)
Value
Realized
on Vesting ($) (2)
Jen-Hsun Huang 83,336 7,360,061 363,687 (3) 49,945,771
Colette M. Kress — — 204,936 (4) 29,022,599
Ajay K. Puri 215,473 22,781,682 154,475 (5) 21,584,512
Debora Shoquist 45,188 6,278,345 112,575 (6) 15,752,964
Timothy S. Teter — — — —
(1) The value realized on cashless exercise represents the difference between the exercise price per share of the stock option and either (a) the fair 
market value of our common stock as reported by NASDAQ at cashless exercise or (b) the closing price of our common stock as reported by NASDAQ 
on the trading day prior to the date of cash exercise, multiplied by the number of shares of common stock underlying the stock options exercised.  
The exercise price of each such stock option was equal to the closing price of our common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the date of grant.  The 
value realized was determined without considering any taxes that may have been owed. 
(2) Represents the number of shares acquired on vesting multiplied by the fair market value of our common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the date 
of vesting.
(3) Includes an aggregate of 189,777 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting.
(4) Includes an aggregate of 105,516 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting. 
(5) Includes an aggregate of 79,191 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting.
(6) Includes an aggregate of 57,324 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting.
Employment, Severance and Change-in-Control Arrangements
Employment Agreements.    Our executive officers are “at-will” employees and we do not have employment, severance or 
change-in-control agreements with our executive officers.
Change-in-Control Arrangements.  Our 2007 Plan provides that in the event of a corporate transaction or a change-in-control, 
outstanding stock awards may be assumed, continued, or substituted by the surviving corporation. If the surviving 
corporation does not assume, continue, or substitute such stock awards, then (a) with respect to any stock awards that are 
held by individuals performing services for NVIDIA immediately prior to the effective time of the transaction, the vesting 
and exercisability provisions of such stock awards will be accelerated in full and such stock awards will be terminated if 
not exercised prior to the effective date of the corporate transaction or change-in-control, and (b) all other outstanding 
stock awards will be terminated if not exercised on or prior to the effective date of the corporate transaction or change-in-
control.

--- Page 62 ---
45
Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control 
Upon a change-in-control or certain other corporate transactions of NVIDIA, unvested options, RSUs and PSUs will fully 
vest in some cases as described above under Employment, Severance and Change-in-Control Arrangements—Change-in-
Control Arrangements. The table below shows our estimates of the amount of the benefit each of our NEOs would have 
received if the unvested options, RSUs and PSUs held by them as of January 28, 2018 had become fully vested as a result 
of a change-in-control. The estimated benefit amount of unvested options was calculated by multiplying the number of in-
the-money unvested options held by the applicable NEO by the difference between the $243.33 closing price of our common 
stock on January 26, 2018, the last trading day of Fiscal 2018, as reported by NASDAQ, and the exercise price of the option. 
The estimated benefit amount of unvested RSUs and unvested PSUs was calculated by multiplying the number of RSUs or 
PSUs held by the applicable NEO by the $243.33 closing price of our common stock on January 26, 2018. 
Name Unvested In-the-Money Options,  RSUs and PSUs at January 28, 2018 (#) (1) Total Estimated Benefit ($)
Jen-Hsun Huang 682,875 166,163,974
Colette M. Kress 234,577 57,079,621
Ajay K. Puri 237,538 70,331,617
Debora Shoquist 167,089 40,657,766
Timothy S. Teter 48,700 11,850,171
(1)   The amounts in this column include unvested SY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2018 and MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2016, Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2018 for 
each NEO, at Base Operating Plan.  The numbers and values of SY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2018 at Base Operating Plan are set forth below under 
“Estimated Fiscal 2018 SY PSUs at Base Operating Plan Performance” and “Value of Estimated Fiscal 2018 SY PSUs at Base Operating Plan 
Performance,” respectively. The actual numbers and values of SY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2018 that became eligible to vest upon certification by our 
CC in February 2018 are set forth under “Actual Fiscal 2018 SY PSUs Eligible to Vest” and “Value of Actual Fiscal 2018 SY PSUs Eligible to Vest,” 
respectively.  The values of the estimated and actual SY PSUs were calculated by multiplying the number of Estimated Fiscal 2018 SY PSUs at Base 
Operating Plan Performance and the number of Actual Fiscal 2018 SY PSUs Eligible to Vest, respectively, held by each respective NEO by the $243.33 
closing price of our common stock on January 26, 2018.
Name
Estimated Fiscal 2018 
SY PSUs at Base Operating 
Plan Performance (#)
Value of Estimated 
Fiscal 2018 SY PSUs at Base 
Operating Plan Performance ($)
Actual Fiscal 2018 SY
PSUs Eligible to Vest (#)
Value of Actual Fiscal 2018
SY PSUs Eligible to Vest ($)
Jen-Hsun Huang 67,500 16,424,775 101,250 24,637,163
Colette M. Kress 19,500 4,744,935 39,000 9,489,870
Ajay K. Puri 20,000 4,866,600 40,000 9,733,200
Debora Shoquist 14,500 3,528,285 29,000 7,056,570
Timothy S. Teter — — — —
The numbers and values of MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2016 at Base Operating Plan Performance are set forth below under “Estimated MY PSUs 
Granted in Fiscal 2016 at Base Operating Plan Performance” and “Value of Estimated MY PSUs Granted in Fiscal 2016 at Base Operating Plan 
Performance,” respectively. The actual numbers and values of MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2016 that became eligible to vest was determined after 
January 28, 2018, the ending date of the three year measurement period for MY PSUs, upon certification by our CC in February 2018 and are set forth 
below under “Actual MY PSUs Granted in Fiscal 2016 Eligible to Vest” and “Value of Actual MY PSUs Granted in Fiscal 2016 Eligible to Vest,” respectively.  
The values of the estimated and actual MY PSUs were calculated by multiplying the number of Estimated MY PSUs Granted in Fiscal 2016 at Base 
Operating Plan Performance and the number of Actual MY PSUs Granted in Fiscal 2016 Eligible to Vest, respectively, held by each respective NEO by 
the $243.33 closing price of our common stock on January 26, 2018.
Name
Estimated MY PSUs Granted in
Fiscal 2016 at Base Operating
Plan Performance (#)
Value of Estimated MY PSUs
Granted in Fiscal 2016 at Base
Operating Plan Performance ($)
Actual MY PSUs
Granted in Fiscal 2016
Eligible to Vest (#)
Value of Actual MY PSUs
Granted in Fiscal 2016
Eligible to Vest ($)
Jen-Hsun Huang 110,000 26,766,300 165,000 40,149,450
Colette M. Kress 7,500 1,824,975 15,000 3,649,950
Ajay K. Puri 7,500 1,824,975 15,000 3,649,950
Debora Shoquist 6,000 1,459,980 12,000 2,919,960
Timothy S. Teter — — — —
The actual number of MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2017 that will become eligible to vest will be determinable after January 27, 2019, the ending date 
of the three year measurement period for MY PSUs.
The actual number of MY PSUs granted in Fiscal 2018 that will become eligible to vest will be determinable after January 26, 2020, the ending date 
of the three year measurement period for MY PSUs.

--- Page 63 ---
46
Pay Ratio 
In accordance with Item 402(u) of Regulation S-K, promulgated by the Dodd Frank Act, we determined the ratio of: (a) the 
annual total compensation of our CEO, to (b) the median of the annual total compensation of all of our employees, except 
for our CEO, both calculated in accordance with the requirements of Item 402(c)(2)(x) of Regulation S-K.
To determine the median of the annual total compensation of all of our employees, except for our CEO, we used a consistently 
applied compensation measure which aggregated, for each employee employed by us on the last business day of Fiscal 
2018, or January 26, 2018: (i) target base salary as of January 26, 2018 (annualized for employees who were employed by 
us for less than the entire fiscal year), (ii) variable cash earned during Fiscal 2018, and (iii) aggregate full grant date fair 
value of equity awards granted during Fiscal 2018, calculated in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 and assuming the 
probable outcome of the conditions at Base Operating Plan for performance-based awards.  Compensation paid in foreign 
currencies was converted to U.S. dollars based on exchange rates in effect on January 26, 2018.
After applying the methodology described above, our median employee compensation for Fiscal 2018 was $147,640. Our 
CEO’s compensation for Fiscal 2018 was $12,993,532. Therefore, our Fiscal 2018 CEO to median employee pay ratio was 
88:1.
This pay ratio represents our reasonable estimate calculated in a manner consistent with Item 402(u) of Regulation S-K 
and applicable guidance, which provide significant flexibility in how companies identify the median employee.  Each company 
may use a different methodology and make different assumptions.  As a result, and as explained by the SEC when it adopted 
these rules, in considering the pay ratio disclosure, stockholders should keep in mind that the rule was not designed to 
facilitate comparisons of pay ratios among different companies, even companies within the same industry, but rather to 
allow stockholders to better understand and assess each particular company’s compensation practices and pay ratio 
disclosures.  Neither the CC nor our management used our Fiscal 2018 CEO to median employee pay ratio in making 
compensation decisions.
Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation
At the beginning of Fiscal 2018, the CC initially consisted of Messrs. Burgess, Coxe and Jones and Mses. Drell and Hudson.  
After the 2017 Meeting, the CC became composed of Messrs. Burgess, Coxe, Jones and Seawell and Ms. Drell.  No member 
of the CC is an officer or employee of NVIDIA, and none of our executive officers serve as a director or member of a 
compensation committee of any entity that has one or more executive officers serving as a member of our Board or CC. 
Compensation Committee Report
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the compensation programs of NVIDIA on behalf of the 
Board of Directors. In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, the Compensation Committee reviewed and discussed with 
management the Compensation Discussion and Analysis included in this proxy statement.
In reliance on the review and discussions referred to above, the Compensation Committee recommended to the Board of 
Directors that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of NVIDIA for the 
year ended January 28, 2018 and in this proxy statement.
Compensation Committee
Robert K. Burgess
Tench Coxe
Persis S. Drell
Harvey C. Jones
A. Brooke Seawell

--- Page 64 ---
47
Proposal 3—Ratification of Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for Fiscal 2019
What am I voting on?  Ratification of the selection of PwC as our independent registered public accounting firm for 
Fiscal 2019.
Vote required:  A majority of the shares present or represented by proxy.
Effect of abstentions:  Same as a vote AGAINST.
Effect of broker non-votes:  None (because this is a routine proposal, there are no broker non-votes).
The AC has selected PwC, which has audited our financial statements annually since 2004, to serve as our independent 
registered public accounting firm for Fiscal 2019. Our lead audit partner at PwC serves no more than five consecutive years 
in that role. Stockholder ratification of the AC’s selection of PwC is not required by our Bylaws or any other governing 
documents or laws. As a matter of good corporate governance, we are submitting the selection of PwC to our stockholders 
for ratification. If our stockholders do not ratify the selection, the AC will reconsider whether or not to retain PwC. Even if 
the selection is ratified, the AC in its sole discretion may direct the appointment of a different independent registered public 
accounting firm at any time during the fiscal year if it determines that such a change would be in our best interests and 
those of our stockholders. The AC believes it is in the best interests of NVIDIA and our stockholders to retain PwC.
We expect that a representative of PwC will attend the 2018 Meeting. The PwC representative will have an opportunity to 
make a statement at the 2018 Meeting if he or she so desires. The representative will also be available to respond to 
appropriate stockholder questions.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board recommends that you vote FOR the ratification of the selection of PwC as our independent registered accounting 
firm for our fiscal year ending January 27, 2019.

--- Page 65 ---
48
Fees Billed by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The following is a summary of fees billed by PwC for Fiscal 2018 and 2017 for audit, tax and other professional services 
during each fiscal year: 
Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017
Audit Fees (1)
$ 4,415,542 $ 4,390,711
Audit-Related Fees (2)
100,000 —
Tax Fees (3)
211,594 394,680
All Other Fees (4)
3,600 3,600
Total Fees $ 4,730,736 $ 4,788,991
(1) Audit fees include fees for the audit of our consolidated financial statements, the audit of our internal control over financial reporting, reviews of our 
quarterly financial statements and annual report, reviews of SEC registration statements and related consents and fees related to statutory audits 
of some of our international entities and comfort letter fees related to the corporate bond offering in Fiscal 2017.
(2) Audit-related fees consist of fees for procedures related to the impact of new accounting pronouncement.
(3) Tax fees consisted of fees for tax compliance and consultation services.
(4) All other fees consisted of fees for products or services other than those included above, including payment to PwC related to the use of an accounting 
regulatory database.
All of the services provided for Fiscal 2018 and 2017 described above were pre-approved by the AC or the Chairperson of 
the AC through the authority granted to him by the AC, which is described below.  Our AC determined that the rendering of 
services other than audit services by PwC was compatible with maintaining PwC’s independence.
Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures
The AC has adopted policies and procedures for the pre-approval of all audit and permissible non-audit services rendered 
by our independent registered public accounting firm. The policy generally permits pre-approvals of specified permissible 
services in the defined categories of audit services, audit-related services and tax services up to specified amounts. Pre-
approval may also be given as part of the AC’s approval of the scope of the engagement of our independent registered 
public accounting firm or on an individual case-by-case basis before the independent registered public accounting firm is 
engaged to provide each service. In some cases the full AC provides pre-approval for up to a year related to a particular 
defined task or scope. In other cases, the AC has delegated power to Mr. McCaffery, the Chairperson of our AC, to pre-approve 
additional non-audit services if the need for the service was unanticipated and approval is required prior to the next scheduled 
meeting of the AC. Mr. McCaffery then communicates such pre-approval to the full AC at its next meeting. 

--- Page 66 ---
49
Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors
The material in this report is not “soliciting material,” is not deemed “filed” with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference 
in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether 
made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing, except to the extent 
specifically incorporated by reference therein.
The Audit Committee, or AC, oversees accounting, financial reporting, internal control over financial reporting, financial 
practices and audit activities of NVIDIA and its subsidiaries. The AC reviews the results and scope of the audit and other 
services provided by the independent registered public accounting firm and reviews financial statements and the accounting 
policies followed by NVIDIA prior to the issuance of the financial statements with both management and the independent 
registered public accounting firm.
Management is responsible for the financial reporting process, the preparation of consolidated financial statements in 
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, the system of internal control over 
financial reporting, and the procedures designed to facilitate compliance with accounting standards and applicable laws 
and regulations. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, or PwC, our independent registered public accounting firm for Fiscal 2018, 
was responsible for performing an independent audit of the consolidated financial statements and issuing a report on the 
consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 
2018.  PwC’s judgments as to the quality, not just the acceptability, of our accounting principles and such other matters are 
required to be disclosed to the AC under applicable standards. The AC oversees these processes. Also, the AC has ultimate 
authority and responsibility to select, evaluate and, when appropriate, terminate the independent registered public 
accounting firm. The AC approves audit fees and non-audit services provided by and fees paid to the independent registered 
public accounting firm.
NVIDIA has an internal audit function that reports to the AC. This function is responsible for objectively reviewing and 
evaluating the adequacy, effectiveness and quality of our system of internal controls and the operating effectiveness of our 
business processes. The AC approves an annual internal audit plan and monitors the activities and performance of our 
internal audit function throughout the year to ensure the plan objectives are carried out and met.
The AC members are not professional accountants or auditors, and their functions are not intended to duplicate or to certify 
the activities of management or the independent registered public accounting firm. The AC does not plan or conduct audits, 
determine that our financial statements are complete and accurate and in accordance with GAAP or assess our internal 
control over financial reporting. The AC relies, without additional independent verification, on the information provided by 
our management and on the representations made by management that the financial statements have been prepared with 
integrity and objectivity, and the opinion of PwC that such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with GAAP.
In this context, the AC reviewed and discussed the audited consolidated financial statements for Fiscal 2018 with 
management and our internal control over financial reporting with management and PwC. Specifically, the AC discussed 
with PwC the matters required to be discussed by Statement on Auditing Standard No. 1301, Communications with Audit 
Committees, as adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. We have received from PwC the written 
disclosures and letter required by the applicable requirements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding 
PwC’s communications with the AC concerning independence. The AC also considered whether the provision of certain 
permitted non-audit services by PwC is compatible with PwC’s independence and discussed PwC’s independence with PwC. 
Based on the AC’s review and discussions, the AC recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited consolidated 
financial statements be included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of NVIDIA for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Dawn Hudson
Michael G. McCaffery
Mark L. Perry
Mark A. Stevens

--- Page 67 ---
50
Equity Compensation Plan Information
The number of shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options, RSUs and PSUs, the weighted-average exercise 
price of outstanding stock options, and the number of stock awards remaining for future issuance under each of our equity 
compensation plans as of January 28, 2018 are summarized as follows:
Plan Category
Number of securities to be
issued upon exercise of 
outstanding options, 
warrants and rights
(a)
Weighted-average
exercise price of
outstanding
options, warrants
and rights ($)
(b)
Number of securities 
remaining available for
future issuance under equity 
compensation plans (excluding 
securities reflected in column (a))
(c)
Equity compensation plans 
approved by security holders (1) 4,975,601 14.39
(2)
63,279,439
(3)
Equity compensation plans not
approved by security holders — — —
Total 4,975,601 14.39
(2) 63,279,439 (3)
(1) This row includes our 2007 Plan and our 2012 ESPP.  Under our 2012 ESPP, participants are permitted to purchase our common stock at a discount 
on certain dates through payroll deductions within a pre-determined purchase period. Accordingly, the number of shares to be issued upon exercise 
of outstanding rights under our 2012 ESPP as of January 28, 2018 is not determinable. 
(2) Represents the weighted-average exercise price of outstanding stock options only.
(3) As of January 28, 2018, the number of shares that remained available for future issuance under the 2007 Plan is 15,780,982, and the number of 
shares that remained available for future issuance under the 2012 ESPP is 47,498,457, of which up to a maximum of 31,032,000 shares may be 
purchased under the 2012 ESPP in the current purchase period which runs until August 31, 2018.

--- Page 68 ---
51
Proposal 4—Approval of an Amendment and Restatement of our Amended and Restated 2007 
Equity Incentive Plan
What am I voting on?  Approval of an amendment and restatement of our 2007 Plan.
Vote required:  A majority of the shares present or represented by proxy.
Effect of abstentions:  Same as a vote AGAINST.
Effect of broker non-votes:  None.
For purposes of this Proposal 4, the term “Proposed 2007 Plan” refers to an amendment and restatement of our 2007 Plan.  
Our CC approved the Proposed 2007 Plan in April 2018, subject to stockholder approval, which we are requesting at the 
2018 Meeting.
Summary of Changes
The Proposed 2007 Plan contains the following material changes from the 2007 Plan:
• Increased Shares Authorized for Issuance.  An increase of 23,000,000 shares, for an aggregate maximum number 
of shares of our common stock authorized for issuance under the Proposed 2007 Plan of 229,567,766 shares, 
subject to adjustment for certain changes in our capitalization.
• Minimum Vesting Requirements.  All stock awards granted under the Proposed 2007 Plan may not vest until at least 
12 months following the date of grant, with an exception for up to 5% of the Proposed 2007 Plan share reserve.
Purpose of the Proposed 2007 Plan and Effect of Stockholder Approval
Competition for talent in our industry and in Silicon Valley is more intense than ever, and equity is a key component of our 
recruitment and retention efforts.  If the Proposed 2007 Plan is approved by our stockholders, we will utilize the Proposed 
2007 Plan to award equity and performance incentives, at levels determined appropriate by our CC, to secure and retain 
our employees, consultants, and directors, and to align their interests with those of our stockholders.  
If approved, the Proposed 2007 Plan will become effective upon the date of the 2018 Meeting.  If not approved, the Proposed 
2007 Plan will not become effective and our 2007 Plan will continue in its current form.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board recommends that you vote FOR the approval of the Proposed 2007 Plan.

--- Page 69 ---
52
Overhang 
The following table provides additional information regarding our 2007 Plan:
As of March 22, 2018 (Record Date)
Total Shares Subject to Outstanding Stock Options 4,848,101
          Weighted-Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Stock Options $14.39
          Weighted-Average Remaining Term of Outstanding Stock Options 4.22
Total Shares Subject to Outstanding Full Value Awards 18,264,167
Total Shares Available for Grant under the 2007 Plan 15,149,089
Total Shares Available for Grant under Other Equity Plans (1) —
Total Common Stock Outstanding 607,036,458
Closing Price of Common Stock as Reported on Nasdaq Global Select Market $241.85
(1) Does not include our 2012 ESPP.
Fiscal 2018 Burn Rate Detail
The following table provides additional information regarding our 2007 Plan activity and outstanding common stock for 
Fiscal 2018: 
Fiscal 2018
Stock Options Granted —
Full Value Awards Granted 6,368,234
Stock Options Cancelled 6,002
Full Value Awards Cancelled 561,022
Weighted-Average Common Stock Outstanding 599,467,917
3-Year Historical Burn Rate
The following table provides information regarding our burn rate for the last 3 fiscal years:
Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018
Gross Burn Rate (1) 2.48% 2.16% 1.06%
Adjusted Gross Burn Rate(1) (2) 4.95% 4.32% 2.12%
Full Value Awards Granted 13,441,716 11,687,738 6,368,234
Weighted-Average Common Stock Outstanding 542,761,652 540,844,022 599,467,917
(1)  Calculated as: shares subject to options and Full Value Awards granted as a percentage of weighted-average common shares outstanding for each 
fiscal year.  PSUs are counted in the year of grant at the maximum number of shares that may become eligible to vest.
(2) For purposes of this calculation, shares subject to Full Value Awards granted are increased by a 2x volatility multiplier.
Description of the Proposed 2007 Plan
The material features of the Proposed 2007 Plan are outlined below. The following description is a summary only and is 
qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Proposed 2007 Plan, which is appended to this proxy statement 
as Appendix A and which we encourage stockholders to read in its entirety.
Purpose.  The Proposed 2007 Plan is designed to provide incentives for our employees, directors, and consultants to exert 
maximum efforts for our success, and to give them an opportunity to benefit from increases in the value of our common 
stock. 
Types of Awards.  The Proposed 2007 Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, 
restricted stock awards, restricted stock unit awards, stock appreciation rights, other stock awards, and performance 
awards that may be settled in cash, stock, or other property.

--- Page 70 ---
53
Share Reserve.  Subject to adjustment for certain changes in our capitalization, the aggregate maximum number of shares 
of our common stock authorized for issuance under the Proposed 2007 Plan is 229,567,766 shares, which includes 
23,000,000 newly requested shares. 
The following shares will not remain available for subsequent issuance under the Proposed 2007 Plan: (i) shares subject 
to a Proposed 2007 Plan award which are withheld by us or tendered by a participant to satisfy the exercise or purchase 
price of, or tax withholding obligations in connection with, the award; and (ii) shares repurchased by us on the open market 
with the proceeds of the exercise or purchase price of a Proposed 2007 Plan award.
Shares subject to a Proposed 2007 Plan award that (i) expires or otherwise terminates without being exercised in full; (ii) 
are forfeited to or repurchased by us; and (iii) are not issued because the award is settled in cash; will remain available for 
subsequent issuance under the Proposed 2007 Plan
Eligibility.  All of our (including our affiliates’) approximately 11,817 employees, 10 non-employee directors and 3,592 
consultants as of March 22, 2018 are eligible to participate and may receive all awards other than incentive stock options, 
which may be granted only to our employees and those of our affiliates.
Annual Per-Participant Limits.  Subject to adjustment for certain changes in our capitalization, no participant will be eligible 
to be granted during any fiscal year more than: (i) 2,000,000 shares of our common stock subject to stock options, stock 
appreciation rights, and other stock awards whose value is determined by reference to an increase over an exercise or 
strike price of at least 100% of the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date; (ii) 2,000,000 shares of our 
common stock under performance stock awards; and (iii) $6,000,000 of performance cash awards. If a performance stock 
award is in the form of a stock option or could be paid out in cash, it will count only against the performance stock award 
limit. 
Administration.  The Proposed 2007 Plan is administered by our Board, which has delegated concurrent authority to the CC, 
but may revest in itself some or all of the delegated power. Each of the Board and the CC is considered to be a Plan 
Administrator for purposes of this Proposal 4.  Subject to the terms of the Proposed 2007 Plan and the limitations set forth 
below, the Plan Administrator may determine the recipients, numbers and types of awards to be granted, the exercise or 
purchase price of awards, and other terms and conditions of awards, including the period of their exercisability and vesting, 
and the fair market value applicable to a stock award.
The Plan Administrator may also delegate to one or more officers the authority to designate non-officer employees to be 
recipients of certain stock awards and the number of shares subject to such stock awards. Under any such delegation, the 
Plan Administrator will specify the total number of shares that may be subject to the stock awards granted by such officer. 
Minimum Vesting Requirements.  All stock awards may not vest until at least 12 months following the date of grant, except 
that up to 5% of the Proposed 2007 Plan share reserve may be subject to stock awards that do not meet such vesting 
requirements.
Vesting Acceleration Only in Limited Circumstances.  The Plan Administrator may accelerate the vesting or exercisability of 
any award only in the event of a participant’s death or disability or in the event of a corporate transaction or change in 
control (as defined in the Proposed 2007 Plan and described below).
Repricing; Cancellation and Re-Grant of Stock Awards.  The Plan Administrator does not have the authority to (i) reprice any 
outstanding stock option or stock appreciation right by reducing its exercise or strike price or (ii) cancel any such award 
that has an exercise or strike price greater than the current fair market value of our common stock in exchange for cash 
or other stock awards, without obtaining the approval of our stockholders within 12 months prior to the repricing or 
cancellation and re-grant event.
Section 162(m) Transition Relief for Performance-Based Compensation. Certain provisions in the Proposed 2007 Plan refer 
to the “performance-based compensation” exception under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, or Section 162(m). 
Pursuant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, this exception was recently repealed for taxable years beginning after December 
31, 2017. However, an award may still be eligible for this exception if, among other requirements, it is intended to qualify, 
and is eligible to qualify, as Section 162(m) performance-based compensation pursuant to the transition relief provided by 
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act for remuneration provided pursuant to a written binding contract which was in effect on November 
2, 2017 and which was not modified in any material respect on or after such date, or Section 162(m) Transition Relief.  As 
of the date our CC approved the Proposed 2007 Plan, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service 
had not issued any applicable guidance, rulings or regulations regarding the Section 162(m) Transition Relief. Accordingly, 
the provisions in the Proposed 2007 Plan which refer to the Section 162(m) performance-based compensation exception 
were not removed so as not to jeopardize the ability of certain awards to qualify for the Section 162(m) Transition Relief 

--- Page 71 ---
54
before any such guidance, rulings or regulations are issued. However, such provisions will only apply to any award that is 
intended to qualify, and is eligible to qualify, as Section 162(m) performance-based compensation pursuant to the Section 
162(m) Transition Relief and, therefore, are not applicable to any other awards granted under the Proposed 2007 Plan. 
Because of certain ambiguities and uncertainties as to the application and interpretation of Section 162(m) and the 
regulations issued thereunder, including the uncertain scope of the Section 162(m) Transition Relief, we do not know the 
extent to which any award granted under the Proposed 2007 Plan will be eligible for the Section 162(m) Transition Relief, 
if at all.
Stock Options.  The Proposed 2007 Plan permits the grant of stock options that qualify as incentive stock options, or ISOs, 
and nonstatutory stock options, or NSOs.
The exercise price of stock options may not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the underlying common stock on 
the date of grant and, in some cases (see Limitations on Incentive Stock Options below), may not be less than 110% of such 
fair market value.
The term of stock options may not exceed ten years and, in some cases (see Limitations on Incentive Stock Options below), 
may not exceed five years. Except as otherwise provided in a participant’s stock option agreement or other agreement with 
us, (i) if a participant’s service relationship with us or any of our affiliates (referred to in this Proposal 4 as “continuous 
service”) terminates (other than for cause or upon the participant’s death or disability), the participant may exercise any 
vested stock options for up to 90 days following such termination; (ii) if a participant’s continuous service is terminated for 
cause, then upon such date all vested and unvested stock options of the participant will terminate and the participant will 
be prohibited from exercising any stock option; and (iii) if a participant’s continuous service terminates due to the participant’s 
death (or the participant dies within a specified period, if any, following termination of continuous service) or the participant’s 
disability, the participant or his or her beneficiary, as applicable, may exercise any vested stock options for up to 18 months 
following the participant’s death and for up to 12 months following the participant’s termination due to disability. The term 
of a stock option may be extended if exercise of the stock option following a participant’s termination of continuous service 
is prohibited by applicable securities laws or would subject the participant to short-swing liability under the Exchange Act. 
In no event may a stock option be exercised after its original expiration date.
Acceptable forms of consideration for the purchase of our common stock pursuant to the exercise of a stock option will be 
determined by the Plan Administrator and may include: (i) cash, check, bank draft, money order or electronic funds transfer; 
(ii) payment pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board; (iii) a net 
exercise feature (for NSOs only); or (iv) other legal consideration approved by the Plan Administrator.
Stock options may vest and become exercisable in accordance with a vesting schedule to be determined by the Plan 
Administrator (subject to the limitations described in Minimum Vesting Requirements above). In the event that a participant’s 
continuous service terminates due to his or her death, the participant’s outstanding stock options will become fully vested 
and exercisable.
Generally, a participant may not transfer a stock option other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant 
to a domestic relations order or an official marital settlement agreement. However, to the extent permitted by the Plan 
Administrator, a participant may designate a beneficiary who may exercise the stock option following the participant’s death.
Limitations on Incentive Stock Options.  The aggregate fair market value, determined at the time of grant, of shares of our 
common stock with respect to ISOs that are exercisable for the first time by a participant during any calendar year under 
all of our stock plans may not exceed $100,000. The stock options or portions of stock options that exceed this limit or 
otherwise fail to qualify as ISOs are treated as NSOs. No ISO may be granted to any person who, at the time of grant, owns 
or is deemed to own stock possessing more than 10% of our total combined voting power or that of any affiliate unless the 
following conditions are satisfied:
• the exercise price of the ISO must be at least 110% of the fair market value of the common stock subject to the 
ISO on the date of grant; and
• the term of the ISO must not exceed five years from the date of grant.
Subject to adjustment for certain changes in our capitalization, the aggregate maximum number of shares of our common 
stock that may be issued pursuant to the exercise of ISOs granted under the Proposed 2007 Plan (including ISOs granted 
under our prior plans) is 250,000,000 shares.
Restricted Stock Awards.  Restricted stock awards may be granted in consideration for: (i) cash, check, bank draft, money 
order or electronic funds transfer; (ii) the participant’s services performed for us or an affiliate of ours; or (iii) any other 

--- Page 72 ---
55
form of legal consideration acceptable to the Plan Administrator. Shares of our common stock acquired under a restricted 
stock award may be forfeited to us in accordance with a vesting schedule to be determined by the Plan Administrator 
(subject to the limitations described in Minimum Vesting Requirements above), provided that if a participant’s continuous 
service terminates due to his or her death, the participant’s outstanding restricted stock awards will become fully vested. 
Rights to acquire shares of our common stock under a restricted stock award may be transferred only pursuant to the 
restricted stock award agreement.  If a participant’s continuous service terminates, any of the participant’s unvested 
restricted stock awards may be forfeited to or repurchased by us in accordance with the applicable restricted stock award 
agreement. A restricted stock award agreement may provide that any dividends paid on shares of our common stock covered 
by a restricted stock award will be subject to the same vesting and forfeiture restrictions as apply to the shares subject to 
the restricted stock award.
Restricted Stock Unit Awards.  The consideration to be paid, if any, by a participant for restricted stock unit awards granted 
under the Proposed 2007 Plan may be made in any form of legal consideration acceptable to the Plan Administrator. 
Restricted stock unit awards may be settled by delivery of our common stock, cash, or any other form of consideration 
determined by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the restricted stock unit award agreement. Restricted stock unit 
awards may be subject to a vesting schedule as determined by the Plan Administrator (subject to the limitations described 
in Minimum Vesting Requirements above), provided that if a participant’s continuous service terminates due to his or her 
death, the participant’s outstanding restricted stock unit awards will become fully vested. Except as otherwise provided in 
the applicable restricted stock unit award agreement, unvested restricted stock units will be forfeited upon a participant’s 
termination of continuous service.  Dividend equivalents may be credited for shares of our common stock covered by a 
restricted stock unit award, provided that any such dividend equivalents are subject to the same terms and conditions of 
the restricted stock unit award agreement.
Stock Appreciation Rights.  Each stock appreciation right is denominated in common stock share equivalents. The associated 
strike price will be determined by the Plan Administrator but will be no less than 100% of the fair market value of the 
underlying common stock at the time of grant. The Plan Administrator may also impose restrictions upon the vesting of 
stock appreciation rights (subject to the limitations described in Minimum Vesting Requirements above). In the event that a 
participant’s continuous service terminates due to his or her death, the participant’s outstanding stock appreciation rights 
will become fully vested and exercisable. The appreciation distribution for stock appreciation rights may be paid in our 
common stock, cash, or any other form of consideration approved by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the stock 
appreciation right agreement. Stock appreciation rights will be subject to the same conditions upon termination of continuous 
service and restrictions on transfer as stock options.
Performance Awards.  We may grant performance stock and cash awards, including Section 162(m) “performance-based 
compensation”.   However, to qualify as Section 162(m) performance-based compensation, among other requirements, 
such awards must be eligible to qualify for the Section 162(m) Transition Relief (as described in Section 162(m) Transition 
Relief for Performance-Based Compensation above).
A performance stock award and a performance cash award is payable (for performance stock awards, including that may 
be granted, vest, or be exercised) contingent upon the achievement of specified performance goals during a specified 
performance period, and may also require completion of a specified period of continuous service. Subject to the limitations 
described in Minimum Vesting Requirements above, the length of any performance period, the performance goals to be 
achieved, and the measure of whether and to what degree such performance goals have been attained will be determined 
by the CC, except that the Plan Administrator also may make any such determinations to the extent that the award is not 
intended to qualify as Section 162(m) performance-based compensation. The Plan Administrator may specify the form of 
payment of performance cash awards, or may provide for a participant to have the option for his or her performance cash 
award, or such portion thereof as the Plan Administrator may specify, to be paid in whole or in part in cash or other property. 
In addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law and the applicable award agreement, the Plan Administrator may 
determine that cash may be used in payment of performance stock awards, or that common stock authorized under the 
Proposed 2007 Plan may be used in payment of performance cash awards. If a participant’s continuous service terminates 
due to his or her death, the participant’s outstanding performance stock awards will be deemed to have been earned at 
the target level of performance, and become fully vested and issued.
For any performance award intended to qualify as Section 162(m) performance-based compensation, (i) the CC will set a 
performance period over which the attainment of one or more performance goals will be measured, (ii) no later than the 
earlier of the 90th day of a performance period and the date on which 25% of the performance period has elapsed, and at 
a time when the achievement of the performance goals remains substantially uncertain, the CC will establish the 
performance goals based upon one or more performance criteria enumerated in the Proposed 2007 Plan and described 
below, (iii) as soon as administratively practicable following the end of the performance period, the CC will certify in writing 

--- Page 73 ---
56
whether the performance goals have been satisfied, and (iv) the CC may reduce or eliminate the compensation or economic 
benefit due upon the attainment of the applicable performance goals as the CC may determine. However, to qualify as 
Section 162(m) performance-based compensation, among other requirements, any such award must be eligible to qualify 
for the Section 162(m) Transition Relief (as described in Section 162(m) Transition Relief for Performance-Based Compensation 
above).
Performance goals under the Proposed 2007 Plan will be based on any one or more of the following performance criteria:
• earnings, including any of the following: gross profit, 
operating income, income before income tax, net 
income, and earnings per share, in each case with any 
one of or combination of the following exclusions or 
inclusions: (a) interest income, (b) interest expense, (c) 
other income that is categorized as non-operating 
income, (d) other expense that is categorized as non-
operating expense, (e) income tax, (f) depreciation, and 
(g) amortization;
• total stockholder return;
• return on equity or average stockholder’s equity;
• return on assets, investment, or capital employed; 
• stock price;
• gross profit margin;
• operating income margin;
• cash flow from operating activities (including cash flow 
from operating activities per share);
• free cash flow (including free cash flow per share);
• change in cash and cash equivalents (or cash flow) 
(including change in cash and cash equivalents per 
share (or cash flow per share));
• sales or revenue targets;
• increases in revenue or product revenue;
• expenses and cost reduction goals;
• improvement in or attainment of expense levels;
• improvement in or attainment of working capital levels;
• economic value added (or an equivalent metric);
• market share;
• share price performance;
• debt reduction;
• implementation or completion of projects or processes;
• customer satisfaction;
• stockholders’ equity;
• capital expenditures;
• debt levels;
• workforce diversity;
• growth of net income or operating income;
• employee retention;
• quality measures; and
• to the extent that an award is not intended to qualify as 
Section 162(m) performance-based compensation, 
other measures of performance selected by the Plan 
Administrator.

--- Page 74 ---
57
Performance goals may be based on a company-wide basis, with respect to one or more business units, divisions, affiliates 
or business segments, and in either absolute terms or relative to the performance of one or more comparable companies 
or the performance of one or more relevant indices. The CC (or, to the extent that an award is not intended to qualify as 
Section 162(m) performance-based compensation, the Plan Administrator) will be authorized to adjust the method of 
calculating performance goal achievement for a performance period as follows, provided that any such adjustments must 
be objectively determinable to the extent that the award is intended to qualify as Section 162(m) performance-based 
compensation: 
• to exclude the effects of stock-based compensation 
(including any modification charges);
• to exclude the portion of any legal settlement assigned 
as past infringement (i.e. the fair value associated with 
the portion of settlement that is non-recurring);
• to exclude restructuring charges (including any costs 
associated with a reduction in force and/or shutting 
down of business operations, such as severance 
compensation and benefits and the cost to shut down 
operating sites/offices);
• to exclude amortization expenses associated with 
intangible assets obtained through a business 
combination (acquisition or asset purchase);
• to exclude other costs incurred in connection with 
acquisitions or divestitures (including potential 
acquisitions or divestitures) that are required to be 
expensed under GAAP (including any direct acquisition 
costs that are not associated with providing ongoing 
future benefit to the combined company and certain 
compensation costs associated with an acquisition, 
such as one-time compensation charges, longer-term 
retention incentives, and associated payroll tax 
charges);
• to exclude any exchange rate effects;
• to exclude the effects of changes to GAAP;
• to exclude the effects of any statutory adjustments to 
corporate tax rates or changes in tax legislation;
• to exclude the portion of tax related settlements; 
• to exclude the effects of any items of an unusual nature 
or of infrequency of occurrence;
• to exclude the dilutive effects of acquisitions or joint 
ventures;
• to exclude the effect of any change in the outstanding 
shares of our common stock by reason of any stock 
dividend or split, stock repurchase, reorganization, 
recapitalization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, 
combination or exchange of shares or other similar 
corporate change, or any distributions to common 
stockholders other than regular cash dividends;
• to exclude the effects of the award of bonuses under 
our bonus plans;
• to exclude any impairment of long-lived assets 
including goodwill, investments in non-affiliated entities 
and intangible asset impairment charges that are 
required to be recorded under GAAP;
• to exclude other events that are significant but not 
related to ongoing business operations, such as large 
charitable donations;
• to assume that any business divested by us achieved 
performance objectives at targeted levels during the 
balance of a performance period following such 
divestiture;
• to include non-operational credits (i.e., situations when 
directly related amounts have not been previously 
charged to our results of operations); and
• to the extent that an award is not intended to qualify as 
Section 162(m) performance-based compensation, to 
make any other adjustments selected by the Plan 
Administrator.
Other Stock Awards.  Other forms of stock awards valued in whole or in part with reference to our common stock may be 
granted. Subject to the terms of the Proposed 2007 Plan and the limitations set forth above (including the limitations 
described in Minimum Vesting Requirements and Vesting Acceleration Only in Limited Circumstances above), the Plan 
Administrator will have sole and complete authority to determine the persons to whom and the times at which such other 
stock awards will be granted, the number of shares of our common stock to be granted and all other conditions of such 
other stock awards. In the event that a participant’s continuous service terminates due to his or her death, then any such 
other stock awards held by the participant will become fully vested.
Clawback Policy.  Granted awards will be subject to recoupment in accordance with any clawback policy that we are required 
to adopt pursuant to the listing standards of any national securities exchange or association on which our securities are 
listed or as is otherwise required by the Dodd Frank Act or other applicable law. In addition, the Plan Administrator may 
impose other clawback, recovery, or recoupment provisions in an award agreement as the Plan Administrator determines 
necessary or appropriate, including a reacquisition right in respect of previously acquired shares of our common stock or 
other cash or property upon the occurrence of cause.
Changes in Capitalization.  In the event of certain capitalization adjustments, the Plan Administrator will proportionately 
adjust: (i) the class(es) and maximum number of securities subject to the Proposed 2007 Plan; (ii) the class(es) and maximum 
number of securities that may be issued pursuant to the exercise of ISOs; (iii) the class(es) and maximum number of 
securities that may be awarded to any person pursuant to the annual per-participant limits under the Proposed 2007 Plan; 
and (iv) the class(es) and number of securities and price per share of stock subject to outstanding stock awards.

--- Page 75 ---
58
Corporate Transaction; Change in Control.  Except as otherwise stated in a stock award agreement, in the event of a corporate 
transaction or a change in control (as defined in the Proposed 2007 Plan and described below), outstanding stock awards 
under the Proposed 2007 Plan may be assumed, continued, or substituted by the surviving or acquiring corporation (or its 
parent company). Except as otherwise stated in a stock award agreement, if the surviving or acquiring corporation (or its 
parent company) does not assume, continue, or substitute such stock awards, then (i) contingent upon the effectiveness of 
the corporate transaction or change in control, any such stock awards that are held by participants whose continuous 
service has not terminated prior to the effective time of the corporate transaction or change in control will become fully 
vested and exercisable, and such stock awards will be terminated if not exercised prior to the effective time of the corporate 
transaction or change in control and any reacquisition or repurchase rights held by us with respect to such stock awards 
will lapse, and (ii) all other stock awards will be terminated if not exercised prior to the effective time of the corporate 
transaction or change in control, provided that any reacquisition or repurchase rights held by us with respect to such stock 
awards may continue to be exercised.
For purposes of the Proposed 2007 Plan, a corporate transaction will be deemed to occur in the event of the consummation 
of: (i) a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of our consolidated assets or of at least 50% of our outstanding 
securities, in the case of awards granted on or after the date of the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and at least 90% 
of our outstanding securities, in the case of awards granted prior to the date of the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; 
or (ii) a merger, consolidation, or similar transaction following which (A) we are not the surviving corporation, or (B) we are 
the surviving corporation but the shares of our common stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction are 
converted or exchanged into other property by virtue of the transaction.
For purposes of the Proposed 2007 Plan, a change in control will be deemed to occur in the event: (i) a person, entity or 
group acquires, directly or indirectly, securities of NVIDIA representing more than 50% of the combined voting power of our 
then outstanding securities, other than by virtue of a merger, consolidation, or similar transaction; (ii) there is consummated 
a merger, consolidation, or similar transaction and, immediately after the consummation of such transaction, our 
stockholders immediately prior thereto do not own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the combined outstanding voting 
power of the surviving entity or the parent of the surviving entity in substantially the same proportions as their ownership 
of our outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such transaction; (iii) there is consummated a sale or other 
disposition of all or substantially all of our consolidated assets, other than a sale or other disposition to an entity in which 
more than 50% of the entity’s combined voting power is owned by our stockholders in substantially the same proportions 
as their ownership of our outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such sale or other disposition; or (iv) a majority 
of our Board becomes comprised of individuals whose nomination, appointment, or election was not approved by a majority 
of the Board members or their approved successors.
Plan Amendments and Termination.  The Plan Administrator will have the authority to amend or terminate the Proposed 
2007 Plan at any time. However, except as otherwise provided in the Proposed 2007 Plan, no such amendment or termination 
may materially impair any rights under awards already granted to a participant unless agreed to by the affected participant. 
We will obtain stockholder approval of any amendment to the Proposed 2007 Plan as required by applicable law and listing 
requirements. Unless sooner terminated, the Proposed 2007 Plan will automatically terminate on March 21, 2022.
U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences
The following is a summary of the principal United States federal income taxation consequences to participants and us 
with respect to participation in the Proposed 2007 Plan. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, and does not discuss 
the income tax laws of any local, state or foreign jurisdiction in which a participant may reside. The information is based 
upon current federal income tax rules and therefore is subject to change when those rules change. Each participant should 
consult the participant’s tax adviser regarding the tax consequences of the grant or exercise of an award or the disposition 
of stock acquired the Proposed 2007 Plan. The Proposed 2007 Plan is not qualified under the provisions of Section 401(a) 
of the Internal Revenue Code and is not subject to any of the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act 
of 1974. Our ability to realize the benefit of any tax deductions described below depends on our generation of taxable income 
as well as the requirement of reasonableness, the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and the 
satisfaction of our tax reporting obligations.
Nonstatutory Stock Options.  Generally, there is no taxation upon the grant of an NSO if the stock option is granted with an 
exercise price equal to the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date. On exercise, a participant will recognize 
ordinary income equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value on the date of exercise of the stock option over the 
exercise price. If the participant is employed by us or one of our affiliates, that income will be subject to withholding taxes. 
The participant’s tax basis in those shares will be equal to their fair market value on the date of exercise of the stock option, 
and the participant’s capital gain holding period for those shares will begin on that date.

--- Page 76 ---
59
Subject to the requirement of reasonableness, the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and the 
satisfaction of a tax reporting obligation, we will generally be entitled to a tax deduction equal to the taxable ordinary income 
realized by the participant.
Incentive Stock Options.  The Proposed 2007 Plan provides for the grant of stock options that are intended to qualify as 
“incentive stock options,” as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Internal Revenue Code, a 
participant generally is not subject to ordinary income tax upon the grant or exercise of an ISO. If the participant holds a 
share received on exercise of an ISO for more than two years from the date the stock option was granted and more than 
one year from the date the stock option was exercised, which is referred to as the required holding period, the difference, 
if any, between the amount realized on a sale or other taxable disposition of that share and the holder’s tax basis in that 
share will be long-term capital gain or loss.
If, however, a participant disposes of a share acquired on exercise of an ISO before the end of the required holding period, 
which is referred to as a disqualifying disposition, the participant generally will recognize ordinary income in the year of 
the disqualifying disposition equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the share on the date the ISO was exercised 
over the exercise price. However, if the sales proceeds are less than the fair market value of the share on the date of exercise 
of the stock option, the amount of ordinary income recognized by the participant will not exceed the gain, if any, realized 
on the sale. If the amount realized on a disqualifying disposition exceeds the fair market value of the share on the date of 
exercise of the stock option, that excess will be short-term or long-term capital gain, depending on whether the holding 
period for the share exceeds one year.
For purposes of the alternative minimum tax, the amount by which the fair market value of a share of stock acquired on 
exercise of an ISO exceeds the exercise price of that stock option generally will be an adjustment included in the participant’s 
alternative minimum taxable income for the year in which the stock option is exercised. If, however, there is a disqualifying 
disposition of the share in the year in which the stock option is exercised, there will be no adjustment for alternative minimum 
tax purposes with respect to that share. In computing alternative minimum taxable income, the tax basis of a share acquired 
on exercise of an ISO is increased by the amount of the adjustment taken into account with respect to that share for 
alternative minimum tax purposes in the year the stock option is exercised.
We are not allowed an income tax deduction with respect to the grant or exercise of an ISO or the disposition of a share 
acquired on exercise of an ISO after the required holding period. If there is a disqualifying disposition of a share, however, 
we are allowed a deduction in an amount equal to the ordinary income includible in income by the participant, subject to 
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and provided that amount constitutes an ordinary and necessary business 
expense for us and is reasonable in amount, and either the employee includes that amount in income or we timely satisfy 
our reporting requirements with respect to that amount.
Restricted Stock Awards.  Generally, the recipient of a restricted stock award will recognize ordinary income at the time the 
stock is received equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the stock received over any amount paid by the 
recipient in exchange for the stock. If, however, the stock is not vested when it is received (for example, if the employee is 
required to work for a period of time in order to have the right to sell the stock), the recipient generally will not recognize 
income until the stock becomes vested, at which time the recipient will recognize ordinary income equal to the excess, if 
any, of the fair market value of the stock on the date it becomes vested over any amount paid by the recipient in exchange 
for the stock. A recipient may, however, file an election with the Internal Revenue Service, within 30 days following his or 
her receipt of the stock award, to recognize ordinary income, as of the date the recipient receives the award, equal to the 
excess, if any, of the fair market value of the stock on the date the award is granted over any amount paid by the recipient 
for the stock.
The recipient’s basis for the determination of gain or loss upon the subsequent disposition of shares acquired from stock 
awards will be the amount paid for such shares plus any ordinary income recognized either when the stock is received or 
when the stock becomes vested.
Subject to the requirement of reasonableness, the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and the 
satisfaction of a tax reporting obligation, we will generally be entitled to a tax deduction equal to the taxable ordinary income 
realized by the recipient of the stock award.
Restricted Stock Unit Awards.  Generally, the recipient of a restricted stock unit award structured to conform to the 
requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code or an exception to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code 
will recognize ordinary income at the time the stock is delivered equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the 
shares of our common stock received over any amount paid by the recipient in exchange for the shares of our common 
stock. To conform to the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the shares of our common stock 

--- Page 77 ---
60
subject to a restricted stock unit award may generally only be delivered upon one of the following events: a fixed calendar 
date (or dates), separation from service, death, disability or a change in control. If delivery occurs on another date, unless 
the restricted stock unit award otherwise complies with or qualifies for an exception to the requirements of Section 409A 
of the Internal Revenue Code, in addition to the tax treatment described above, the recipient will owe an additional 20% 
federal tax and interest on any taxes owed.
The recipient’s basis for the determination of gain or loss upon the subsequent disposition of shares acquired from a 
restricted stock unit award will be the amount paid for such shares plus any ordinary income recognized when the stock 
is delivered.
Subject to the requirement of reasonableness, the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and the 
satisfaction of a tax reporting obligation, we will generally be entitled to a tax deduction equal to the taxable ordinary income 
realized by the recipient of the stock award.
Stock Appreciation Rights.  We may grant stock appreciation rights separate from any other award or in tandem with other 
awards. Where the stock appreciation rights are granted with a strike price equal to the fair market value of the underlying 
stock on the grant date, the recipient will recognize ordinary income equal to the fair market value of the stock or cash 
received upon such exercise. Subject to the requirement of reasonableness, the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Internal 
Revenue Code, and the satisfaction of a tax reporting obligation, we will generally be entitled to a tax deduction equal to the 
taxable ordinary income realized by the recipient of the stock appreciation right.
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code disallows a deduction to any 
publicly held corporation and its affiliates for certain compensation paid to “covered employees” in a taxable year to the 
extent that compensation to a covered employee exceeds $1 million. Prior to the recent enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs 
Act, compensation that qualified as “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code 
was not subject to this deduction limitation. Pursuant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, this exception for “performance-based 
compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code was repealed with respect to taxable years beginning 
after December 31, 2017, except that certain transition relief is provided by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act for remuneration 
provided pursuant to a written binding contract which was in effect on November 2, 2017 and which was not modified in 
any material respect on or after such date. As a result, compensation paid to any of our “covered employees” in excess of 
$1 million per taxable year will not be deductible unless, among other requirements, it is intended to qualify, and is eligible 
to qualify, as “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code pursuant to the 
transition relief provided by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Because of certain ambiguities and uncertainties as to the application 
and interpretation of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations issued thereunder, including the 
uncertain scope of the transition relief provided by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, no assurance can be given that any award 
granted under the Proposed 2007 Plan will be eligible for such transition relief and, therefore, eligible for the “performance-
based compensation” exception under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.

--- Page 78 ---
61
New Plan Benefits
Awards under the Proposed 2007 Plan are discretionary and are not subject to set benefits or amounts under the terms of 
the Proposed 2007 Plan. However, our Board’s current policy establishes the number of shares subject to initial and annual 
stock awards that will be granted to our non-employee directors under the Proposed 2007 Plan. The Board’s current policy 
with respect to stock awards granted to our non-employee directors is described under Director Compensation above.
Proposed 2007 Plan
Name and Position Dollar Value
Number of Shares Subject to
Stock Awards
Jen-Hsun Huang (1)
President and CEO * *
Colette M. Kress (1)
Executive Vice President and CFO * *
Ajay K. Puri (1)
Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations * *
Debora Shoquist (1)
Executive Vice President, Operations * *
Timothy S. Teter (1)
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary * *
All Current Executive Officers as a Group (1) * *
All Current Non-Executive Directors as a Group (2) $2,250,000 *
All Current and Former Employees as a Group (including all current non-
executive officers) (1) * *
(1)       The amounts allocable under the Proposed 2007 Plan to our executive officers and other employees are not determinable because 
the Proposed 2007 Plan does not provide for set benefits or amounts with respect to awards granted under the Proposed 2007 Plan, 
and we have not approved any awards that are conditioned on stockholder approval of this Proposal 4.
(2) On the first trading day following the 2018 Meeting, each of our current non-employee directors will be granted an RSU award 
covering shares of our common stock with an approximate value of $225,000, consistent with the Board’s current policy as described 
under Director Compensation above. The number of shares subject to such awards is determined on the basis of the average closing 
price of our common stock over the 60-day period ending the business day prior to the 2018 Meeting and, therefore, is not determinable 
at this time.  Such awards will be granted under the Proposed 2007 Plan if this Proposal 4 is approved by our stockholders.

--- Page 79 ---
62
2007 Plan Benefits
The following table shows, for each of the individuals and the various groups indicated, the number of shares of our common 
stock subject to awards that have been granted (even if not currently outstanding) under the 2007 Plan since its initial 
approval by our stockholders in 2007 through March 22, 2018.
2007 Plan
Name and Position Number of Shares
Subject to Stock Awards
Jen-Hsun Huang
President and CEO 5,362,625
Colette M. Kress
Executive Vice President and CFO 854,025
Ajay K. Puri
Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations 1,446,713
Debora Shoquist
Executive Vice President, Operations 1,385,900
Timothy S. Teter
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 62,800
All Current Executive Officers as a Group 9,112,063
All Current Non-Executive Directors as a Group 2,631,076
All Current and Former Employees as a Group (including all current non-executive officers) 144,045,251
Each Nominee for Director:
     Robert K. Burgess 130,391
     Tench Coxe 401,439
     Persis S. Drell 31,571
     James C. Gaither 306,338
     Jen-Hsun Huang 5,362,625
     Dawn Hudson 137,045
     Harvey C. Jones 371,633
     Michael G. McCaffery 31,571
     Mark L. Perry 275,350
     A. Brooke Seawell 368,582
     Mark A. Stevens 370,394
Each Associate of any Director, Executive Officer or Nominee —
Each Other Current and Former 5% Holder or Future 5% Recipient —

--- Page 80 ---
63
Proposal 5—Approval of an Amendment and Restatement of our Amended and Restated 2012 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
What am I voting on?  Approval of an amendment and restatement of our 2012 ESPP.
Vote required:  A majority of the shares present or represented by proxy.
Effect of abstentions:  Same as a vote AGAINST.
Effect of broker non-votes:  None.
For purposes of this Proposal 5, the term “Proposed 2012 ESPP” refers to an amendment and restatement of our 2012 
ESPP.  Our CC approved the Proposed 2012 ESPP in April 2018, subject to stockholder approval, which we are requesting 
at the 2018 Meeting.
Summary of Change
The Proposed 2012 ESPP contains the following material change from the 2012 ESPP:
• Increased Shares Authorized for Issuance.  An increase of 13,500,000 shares, for an aggregate maximum number 
of shares of our common stock authorized for issuance under the Proposed 2012 ESPP of 91,432,333 shares, 
subject to adjustment for certain changes in our capitalization.
As of March 22, 2018, 46,824,643 shares of our common stock remained available for future issuance under the 2012 ESPP 
and a total of 607,036,458 shares of our common stock were outstanding.
Purpose of the Proposed 2012 ESPP and Effect of Stockholder Approval
Approval of the Proposed 2012 ESPP will allow us to continue to provide our employees with the opportunity to acquire an 
ownership interest in NVIDIA through their participation in the Proposed ESPP, encouraging them to remain in our employ 
and more closely aligning their interests with those of our stockholders.
If this Proposal 5 is approved by our stockholders, the Proposed 2012 ESPP will become effective upon the date of the 2018 
Meeting. In the event that our stockholders do not approve this Proposal 5, the Proposed 2012 ESPP will not become effective 
and our 2012 ESPP will continue in its current form.
Recommendation of the Board
The Board recommends that you vote FOR the approval of the Proposed 2012 ESPP.

--- Page 81 ---
64
Description of the Proposed 2012 ESPP
The material features of the Proposed 2012 ESPP are outlined below. The following description is a summary only and is 
qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Proposed 2012 ESPP, which is appended to this proxy 
statement as Appendix B and which we encourage stockholders to read in its entirety.
Purpose and Background.  The Proposed 2012 ESPP is designed to provide certain employees with an opportunity to purchase 
our common stock, and to motivate those individuals to exert maximum efforts for our success.
The Proposed 2012 ESPP includes two components.  One component allows eligible employees to purchase our common 
stock in a manner that may qualify for favorable tax treatment under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, 
purchase rights may be granted under a second component that does not qualify for favorable tax treatment because of 
deviations necessary to permit participation by eligible employees who are foreign nationals or employed outside of the 
U.S. while complying with applicable foreign laws.
Administration.  The Proposed 2012 ESPP is administered by our Board, which has delegated concurrent authority to the 
CC, but may revest in itself some or all of the delegated power. Each of the Board and the CC is considered to be a Plan 
Administrator for purposes of this Proposal 5. The Plan Administrator has the final power to construe and interpret both 
the Proposed 2012 ESPP and the purchase rights granted thereunder. The Plan Administrator has the power, subject to the 
provisions of the Proposed 2012 ESPP, to determine the provisions of each offering of rights to purchase our common stock, 
and whether employees of any of our parent or subsidiary companies (or any branch or representative office thereof) will 
be eligible to participate in the Proposed 2012 ESPP.
Share Reserve.  Subject to adjustment for certain changes in our capitalization, the aggregate maximum number of shares 
of our common stock authorized for issuance under the Proposed 2012 ESPP is 91,432,333 shares, which includes 
13,500,000 newly requested shares. 
If any purchase right granted under the Proposed 2012 ESPP terminates without having been exercised in full, the shares 
of common stock not purchased will again become available for issuance under the Proposed 2012 ESPP.
Offering Periods.  Shares of our common stock are offered through a series of offering periods of such duration as determined 
by the Plan Administrator, provided that in no event may an offering period exceed 27 months. We may have concurrent or 
overlapping separate offerings which vary in terms. Each offering period has one or more purchase dates, as determined 
by the Plan Administrator prior to the commencement of that offering period. The Plan Administrator has the authority to 
alter the duration of subsequent offering periods or change the number of purchase dates within each such offering period. 
When an eligible employee elects to join an offering period, he or she is granted a purchase right to acquire shares of our 
common stock on each purchase date within the offering period. On the purchase date, all contributions collected from the 
participant are automatically applied to the purchase of our common stock, subject to certain limitations.
The Plan Administrator has the discretion to structure an offering so that if the fair market value of our common stock on 
the first trading day of a new purchase period within the offering period is less than or equal to a participant’s offering date 
price, then with respect to such participant, that offering will terminate immediately as of that first trading day and such 
participant will be automatically enrolled in a new offering beginning on that trading day.
For purposes of this Proposal 5, a participant’s “offering date price” means, with respect to each participant participating 
in an offering, the fair market value of our common stock on the offering date applicable to such participant (i.e., the date 
on which such participant is granted a purchase right for such offering).
Eligibility.  Generally, each employee employed by us, or by any of our parent or subsidiary companies (or by any branch or 
representative office thereof) designated by the Plan Administrator, may participate in offerings, provided such employee 
has been in our continuous employment for such period preceding the first day of the offering period as the Plan 
Administrator may require, but in no event may the required period of continuous employment be equal to or greater than 
two years. In addition, the Plan Administrator may (unless prohibited by law) provide that an employee will not be eligible 
to be granted purchase rights unless such employee is customarily employed for more than 20 hours per week and five 
months per calendar year. The Plan Administrator may provide in any offering that certain of our employees who are “highly 
compensated” as defined in the Internal Revenue Code are not eligible to participate.
However, no employee is eligible to participate if, immediately after the grant of purchase rights, the employee would own, 
directly or indirectly, stock possessing 5% or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of our stock 
or of any of our parent or subsidiary companies, including any stock which such employee may purchase under all 
outstanding purchase rights and options. In addition, no employee may purchase more than $25,000 worth of our common 

--- Page 82 ---
65
stock, valued at the time each purchase right is granted, for each calendar year during which those purchase rights are 
outstanding.
All of our approximately 12,133 employees as of March 22, 2018 who meet the eligibility requirements set forth above are 
eligible to participate.
Participation.  An eligible employee may enroll by delivering to us, prior to the date selected by the Plan Administrator as 
the beginning of an offering period, an agreement authorizing contributions as specified by the Plan Administrator, which 
may be up to 15% of such employee’s earnings during the applicable period. 
Purchase Price.  The purchase price per share at which shares of our common stock are sold on each purchase date during 
an offering period will not be less than 85% of the lesser of (i) the fair market value per share of our common stock on that 
purchase date or (ii) the participant’s offering date price (as described in Offering Periods above). As of March 22, 2018, the 
closing price of our common stock as reported on the Nasdaq Global Select Market was $241.85 per share.
Payment of Purchase Price; Contributions.  The purchase price of the shares is generally funded by payroll deductions 
accumulated over the offering period, unless otherwise required by local laws.  All contributions made for a participant are 
credited to his or her account and deposited with our general funds, unless otherwise required by local laws.
Purchase of Stock.  By executing an agreement to participate, an employee is entitled to purchase shares.  The Plan 
Administrator may specify a maximum number of shares of common stock that each participant may purchase and a 
maximum aggregate number of shares of common stock that may be purchased by all participants in such offering. If the 
aggregate number of shares to be purchased upon exercise of outstanding purchase rights in the offering would exceed 
any such maximum number, the Plan Administrator will make a pro rata allocation of available shares in a uniform and 
equitable manner. Unless an employee’s participation is discontinued, his or her right to purchase shares is exercised 
automatically on the next purchase date at the applicable price. See Withdrawal below.
Withdrawal.  Participants may withdraw from a given offering period by delivering a form provided by us and terminating 
their contributions. Such withdrawal may occur at any time prior to the end of an offering, except as otherwise provided by 
the Plan Administrator. Upon such withdrawal, we will refund accumulated but unused contributions without interest to 
the employee, and such employee’s right to participate in that offering will terminate. An employee’s withdrawal from an 
offering does not affect eligibility to participate in future offerings.
Termination of Employment.  Purchase rights terminate immediately upon cessation of employment for any reason or if a 
participant is otherwise no longer eligible to participate, and we will refund all accumulated but unused contributions without 
interest.
Restrictions on Transfer and Sales.  Purchase rights are not transferable and may be exercised only by the person to whom 
such rights are granted, except by will, by the laws of descent and distribution, or, if permitted by us by a beneficiary 
designation.
Changes in Capitalization.  In the event of certain capitalization adjustments, the Plan Administrator will proportionately 
adjust: (i) the class(es) and maximum number of securities subject to the Proposed 2012 ESPP; (ii) the class(es) and number 
of securities and price per share in effect under each outstanding purchase right; and (iii) the class(es) and number of 
securities that are the subject of any purchase limits under each ongoing offering.
Corporate Transaction.  In the event of a corporate transaction (as defined in the Proposed 2012 ESPP and described below), 
any surviving or acquiring corporation (or its parent company) may assume or continue outstanding purchase rights or 
substitute similar purchase rights for outstanding purchase rights. If the surviving or acquiring corporation (or its parent 
company) does not assume or continue such rights or substitute similar rights, then the participants’ accumulated 
contributions will be applied to the purchase of shares of our common stock within 10 business days prior to the corporate 
transaction, and such outstanding purchase rights will terminate immediately thereafter.
For purposes of the Proposed 2012 ESPP, a corporate transaction generally will be deemed to occur in the event of the 
consummation of: (i) a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of our consolidated assets or of at least 50% of 
our outstanding securities; or (ii) a merger, consolidation or similar transaction following which (A) we are not the surviving 
corporation, or (B) we are the surviving corporation but the shares of our common stock outstanding immediately prior to 
such transaction are converted or exchanged into other property by virtue of the transaction.
Plan Amendments and Termination.  The Plan Administrator may amend or terminate the Proposed 2012 ESPP at any time. 
However, purchase rights granted before amendment or termination of the Proposed 2012 ESPP will not be materially 

--- Page 83 ---
66
impaired by any such amendment or termination, except (i) with the consent of the affected participant, (ii) as necessary 
to comply with any laws, listing requirements or governmental regulations (including Section 423 of the Internal Revenue 
Code) or (iii) as necessary to obtain or maintain favorable tax, listing, or regulatory treatment. We will obtain stockholder 
approval of any amendment to the Proposed 2012 ESPP as required by applicable law and listing requirements.
U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences
The following is a summary of the principal United States federal income taxation consequences to employees and us with 
respect to participation in the component of the Proposed 2012 ESPP intended to qualify as an “employee stock purchase 
plan” within the meaning of Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, and 
does not discuss the income tax laws of any local, state or foreign jurisdiction in which a participant may reside or the 
taxation consequences with respect to participation in any component of the Proposed 2012 ESPP not intended to meet 
the requirements of Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. The information is based upon current federal income tax 
rules and therefore is subject to change when those rules change. Each participant should consult the participant’s tax 
adviser regarding the tax consequences of the grant or exercise of a purchase right or the disposition of stock acquired.  
The Proposed 2012 ESPP is not qualified under the provisions of Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and is not 
subject to any of the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Our ability to realize the benefit 
of any tax deductions described below depends on our generation of taxable income as well as the requirement of 
reasonableness, the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and the satisfaction of our tax reporting 
obligations.
A participant will be taxed on amounts withheld for the purchase of shares of our common stock as if such amounts were 
paid directly to the participant. However, no taxable income will be recognized by a participant, and no deductions will be 
allowable to us, upon either the grant or exercise of purchase rights. Taxable income will not be recognized until there is a 
sale or other disposition of the shares acquired, or in the event the participant should die while still owning the purchased 
shares.
If a participant sells or otherwise disposes of the purchased shares within two years after the beginning of the associated 
offering period or within one year after the purchase date, then the participant will recognize ordinary income in the year 
of sale or disposition equal to the amount by which the fair market value of the shares on the purchase date exceeded the 
purchase price, and we will be entitled to an income tax deduction, for the taxable year in which such disposition occurs, 
equal in amount to such excess. The participant will also recognize a capital gain to the extent the amount realized upon 
the sale of the shares exceeds the sum of the aggregate purchase price for those shares and the ordinary income recognized 
in connection with their acquisition.
If the participant sells or otherwise disposes of the purchased shares more than two years after the beginning of the 
associated offering period and more than one year after the purchase date, the participant will generally recognize ordinary 
income in the year of sale or disposition equal to the lesser of (a) the excess of the fair market value of the shares at the 
time of such sale or disposition over the purchase price or (b) the excess of the fair market value of the shares as of the 
beginning of the offering period over the purchase price (determined as of the beginning of the offering period).  Any further 
gain or any loss will be taxed as a long-term capital gain or loss. We will not be entitled to an income tax deduction with 
respect to such disposition.
If the participant still owns the purchased shares at the time of death, then a transfer by the estate will be considered a 
distribution and the lesser of the following amounts will be treated as ordinary income: (a) the excess of the fair market 
value of the shares at the time of death over the purchase price or (b) the excess of the fair market value of the shares as 
of the beginning of the offering period over the purchase price (determined as of the beginning of the offering period).  Any 
further gain or any loss will be taxed as a long-term capital gain or loss.
New Plan Benefits
Participation will be voluntary and each eligible employee will make his or her own decision whether and to what extent to 
participate. In addition, we have not approved any grants of purchase rights that are conditioned on stockholder approval 
of this Proposal 5. Accordingly, we cannot currently determine the benefits or number of shares that will be received in the 
future by individual employees or groups of employees. Our non-employee directors will not be eligible to participate. 

--- Page 84 ---
67
2012 ESPP Benefits
The following table shows, for each of the individuals and the various groups indicated, the number of shares of our common 
stock that have been purchased under the 2012 ESPP since its initial approval by our stockholders in 2012 through March 
22, 2018.
2012 ESPP
Name and Position
Number of Shares
Purchased
Jen-Hsun Huang
President and CEO 5,125
Colette M. Kress
Executive Vice President and CFO 334
Ajay K. Puri
Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations 8,279
Debora Shoquist
Executive Vice President, Operations 8,159
Timothy S. Teter
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 486
All Current Executive Officers as a Group 22,383
All Current Non-Executive Directors as a Group —
All Current and Former Employees as a Group (including all current non-executive officers) 28,388,790
Each Nominee for Director:
     Robert K. Burgess —
     Tench Coxe —
     Persis S. Drell —
     James C. Gaither —
     Jen-Hsun Huang 5,125
     Dawn Hudson —
     Harvey C. Jones —
     Michael G. McCaffery —
     Mark L. Perry —
     A. Brooke Seawell —
     Mark A. Stevens —
Each Associate of any Director, Executive Officer or Nominee —
Each Other Current and Former 5% Holder or Future 5% Recipient —

--- Page 85 ---
68
Additional Information
Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires our executive officers, directors and persons who own more than 10% of a 
registered class of our equity securities to file initial reports of ownership and reports of changes in ownership of our 
common stock and other equity securities with the SEC. Executive officers, directors and greater than 10% stockholders 
are required by SEC regulations to furnish us with copies of all Section 16(a) forms they file.
To our knowledge, based solely on a review of the copies of such reports furnished to us and written representations that 
no other reports were required all Section 16(a) filing requirements applicable to individuals who were, during Fiscal 2018, 
our executive officers, directors and greater than 10% beneficial owners were complied with, except for Mr. Stevens, who 
filed a Form 4 which updated additional shares that were not previously included in his September 2008 initial Statement 
of Beneficial Ownership of Securities.
Other Matters
The Board knows of no other matters that will be presented for consideration at the 2018 Meeting. If any other matters are 
properly brought before the 2018 Meeting, it is the intention of the persons named in the accompanying proxy to vote on 
such matters in accordance with their best judgment.
        By Order of the Board of Directors
Timothy S. Teter
Secretary
April 6, 2018
A COPY OF OUR ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 28, 2018 AS FILED WITH THE 
SEC IS BEING FURNISHED TO STOCKHOLDERS CONCURRENTLY HEREWITH. STOCKHOLDERS MAY SUBMIT A WRITTEN 
REQUEST FOR AN ADDITIONAL COPY OF THE ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 
28, 2018 TO: INVESTOR RELATIONS, NVIDIA CORPORATION, 2788 SAN TOMAS EXPRESSWAY, SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 
95051. WE WILL ALSO FURNISH A COPY OF ANY EXHIBIT TO THE ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K IF SPECIFICALLY 
REQUESTED IN WRITING.
NVIDIA and the NVIDIA logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the United States and other 
countries. Other company names used in this publication are for identification purposes only and may be trademarks of their 
respective companies.

--- Page 86 ---
A-1
APPENDIX A
NVIDIA Corporation Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan
Approved by the Compensation Committee:  April 24, 2007
Approved by the Stockholders:  June 21, 2007
Amended by the Compensation Committee: November 11, 2010
Amended and Restated by the Compensation Committee:  March 22, 2012
Approved by the Stockholders:  May 17, 2012
Amended and Restated by the Compensation Committee:  April 9, 2014
Approved by the Stockholders:  May 23, 2014
Amended and Restated by the Compensation Committee: April 5, 2016
Approved by the Stockholders:  May 18, 2016
Amended and Restated by the Compensation Committee: April 3, 2018
Approved by the Stockholders:  [May 16, 2018]
Termination Date:  March 21, 2022
1. General.
(a) Successor and Continuation of Prior Plans.  The Plan is intended as the successor to and continuation of the 
NVIDIA Corporation 1998 Equity Incentive Plan (the “1998 Plan”), the NVIDIA Corporation 1998 Non-Employee Directors’ 
Stock Option Plan, the NVIDIA Corporation 2000 Nonstatutory Equity Incentive Plan, and the PortalPlayer, Inc. 2004 Stock 
Incentive Plan (together, the “Prior Plans”).  Following the Effective Date, no additional stock awards will be granted under 
any of the Prior Plans and all newly granted Stock Awards will be subject to the terms of this Plan except as follows: from 
the Effective Date until September 30, 2007 (the “Transition Date”) (during which time the Company anticipates taking such 
steps as are necessary or appropriate to permit participation in the Plan by Employees, Directors or Consultants who are 
foreign nationals or are employed outside the United States), the Company may grant stock awards subject to the terms of 
the 1998 Plan covering up to an aggregate of 100,000 shares of Common Stock to newly hired employees of the Company 
and its Affiliates who are foreign nationals or are employed outside the United States (such 100,000 share reserve, the 
“Foreign Transition Reserve”).  On the Effective Date, all of the shares remaining available for issuance under the Prior Plans 
will become available for issuance under the Plan; provided, however, that the issuance of shares upon the exercise of 
options or the settlement of stock awards granted under the Prior Plans (including the issuance of shares upon the exercise 
or settlement of any awards granted following the Effective Date subject to the terms of the 1998 Plan from the Foreign 
Transition Reserve) will occur from this Plan and will reduce the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance 
under this Plan as provided in Section 3 below.  Any shares of Common Stock subject to outstanding options and stock 
awards granted under the Prior Plans that expire or terminate for any reason prior to exercise or settlement (collectively, 
the “Prior Plans’ Returning Shares”) will become available for issuance pursuant to Stock Awards granted hereunder. Except 
as expressly set forth in this Section 1(a), all options and stock awards granted under the Prior Plans will remain subject 
to the terms of the Prior Plans with respect to which they were originally granted. 
(b) Eligible Award Recipients.  The persons eligible to receive Awards are Employees, Directors and Consultants.
(c) Available Awards.  The Plan provides for the grant of the following Awards: (i) Incentive Stock Options, (ii) 
Nonstatutory Stock Options, (iii) Restricted Stock Awards, (iv) Restricted Stock Unit Awards, (v) Stock Appreciation Rights, 
(vi) Performance Stock Awards, (vii) Performance Cash Awards, and (viii) Other Stock Awards.
(d) Purpose.  The Company, by means of the Plan, seeks to secure and retain the services of the group of persons 
eligible to receive Awards as set forth in Section 1(b), to provide incentives for such persons to exert maximum efforts for 
the success of the Company and any Affiliate, and to provide a means by which such eligible recipients may be given an 
opportunity to benefit from increases in value of the Common Stock through the granting of Stock Awards.
(e) Section 162(m) Transition Relief.  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, any reference in the Plan 
to “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code will only apply to any Award that is intended, and 
is eligible, to qualify as such pursuant to the transition relief provided by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA”) for 
remuneration provided by a written binding contract which was in effect on November 2, 2017 and which was not 
subsequently materially modified, as determined by the Board, in its sole discretion, in accordance with the TCJA and any 
applicable guidance, rulings or regulations issued by any governmental authority.
2. Administration.
(a) Administration by Board.  The Board will administer the Plan unless and until the Board delegates administration 
of the Plan to a Committee or Committees, as provided in Section 2(c).

--- Page 87 ---
A-2
(b) Powers of Board.  The Board will have the power, subject to, and within the limitations of, the express provisions 
of the Plan:
(i) To determine from time to time (A) which of the persons eligible under the Plan will be granted Awards; 
(B) when and how each Award will be granted; (C) what type or combination of types of Award will be granted; (D) the 
provisions of each Award granted (which need not be identical), including the time or times when a person will be permitted 
to receive cash or Common Stock pursuant to a Stock Award; (E) the number of shares of Common Stock subject to, or the 
cash value of, an Award; and (F) the Fair Market Value applicable to a Stock Award.
(ii) To construe and interpret the Plan and Awards granted under it, and to establish, amend and revoke rules 
and regulations for its administration.  The Board, in the exercise of this power, may correct any defect, omission or 
inconsistency in the Plan or in any Stock Award Agreement or in the written terms of a Performance Cash Award, in a 
manner and to the extent it will deem necessary or expedient to make the Plan or Award fully effective.
(iii) To settle all controversies regarding the Plan and Awards granted under it.
(iv) To accelerate the time at which an Award may be exercised or the time during which an Award or any part 
thereof will vest in accordance with the Plan, notwithstanding the provisions in the Award stating the time at which it may 
be exercised or the time during which it will vest (or at which cash or shares of Common Stock may be issued); provided, 
however, that notwithstanding the foregoing or anything in the Plan to the contrary, the time at which a Participant’s Award 
may be exercised or the time during which a Participant’s Award or any part thereof will vest may only be accelerated in 
the event of the Participant’s death or Disability or in the event of a Corporate Transaction or Change in Control.
(v) To suspend or terminate the Plan at any time.  Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or an Award 
Agreement, suspension or termination of the Plan will not materially impair a Participant’s rights under his or her then-
outstanding Award without his or her written consent.
(vi) To amend the Plan in any respect the Board deems necessary or advisable, including, without limitation, 
relating to Incentive Stock Options and certain nonqualified deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Code and/
or to bring the Plan or Awards granted under the Plan into compliance therewith, subject to the limitations, if any, of applicable 
law. However, except as provided in Section 9(a) relating to Capitalization Adjustments, stockholder approval will be required 
for any amendment of the Plan that either (i) materially increases the number of shares of Common Stock available for 
issuance under the Plan, (ii) materially expands the class of individuals eligible to receive Awards under the Plan, (iii) 
materially increases the benefits accruing to Participants under the Plan or materially reduces the price at which shares 
of Common Stock may be issued or purchased under the Plan, (iv) materially extends the term of the Plan, or (v) materially 
expands the types of Awards available for issuance under the Plan, but only to the extent required by applicable law or 
listing requirements.  Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or an Award Agreement, rights under any Award granted 
before amendment of the Plan will not be materially impaired by any amendment of the Plan unless (i) the Company requests 
the consent of the affected Participant, and (ii) such Participant consents in writing.
(vii) To submit any amendment to the Plan for stockholder approval, including, but not limited to, amendments 
to the Plan intended to satisfy the requirements of (i) Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations thereunder regarding 
the exclusion of performance-based compensation from the limit on corporate deductibility of compensation paid to Covered 
Employees, (ii) Section 422 of the Code regarding Incentive Stock Options, or (iii) Rule 16b-3.
(viii) To approve forms of Award Agreements for use under the Plan and to amend the terms of any one or more 
Awards, including, but not limited to, amendments to provide terms more favorable than previously provided in the Award 
Agreement, subject to any specified limits in the Plan that are not subject to Board discretion; provided however, that, except 
with respect to amendments that disqualify or impair the status of an Incentive Stock Option or as otherwise provided in 
the Plan or an Award Agreement, the rights under any Award will not be materially impaired by any such amendment unless 
(i) the Company requests the consent of the affected Participant, and (ii) such Participant consents in writing.  Notwithstanding 
the foregoing, subject to the limitations of applicable law, if any, and without the affected Participant’s consent, the Board 
may amend the terms of any one or more Awards if necessary (A) to maintain the qualified status of the Award as an 
Incentive Stock Option, (B) to clarify the manner of exemption from, or to bring the Award into compliance with, Section 
409A of the Code and the related guidance thereunder, or (C) to comply with other applicable laws. 
(ix) Generally, to exercise such powers and to perform such acts as the Board deems necessary or expedient 
to promote the best interests of the Company and that are not in conflict with the provisions of the Plan or Awards.
(x) To adopt such procedures or terms and sub-plans (none of which will be inconsistent with the provisions 
of the Plan) as are necessary or desirable to permit or facilitate participation in the Plan by Employees, Directors or 
Consultants who are foreign nationals or employed or located outside the United States.

--- Page 88 ---
A-3
(c) Delegation to Committee.
(i) General.  The Board may delegate some or all of the administration of the Plan to a Committee or 
Committees.  If administration of the Plan is delegated to a Committee, the Committee will have, in connection with the 
administration of the Plan, the powers theretofore possessed by the Board that have been delegated to the Committee, 
including the power to delegate to a subcommittee of the Committee any of the administrative powers the Committee is 
authorized to exercise (and references in this Plan to the Board will thereafter be to the Committee or subcommittee), 
subject, however, to such resolutions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as may be adopted from time to time 
by the Board or Committee (as applicable).  The Board may retain the authority to concurrently administer the Plan with 
the Committee and may, at any time, revest in the Board some or all of the powers previously delegated.
(ii) Section 162(m) and Rule 16b-3 Compliance.  The Committee may consist solely of two or more Outside 
Directors, in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code, or solely of two or more Non-Employee Directors, in accordance 
with Rule 16b-3.  In addition, the Board or the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (A) delegate to a Committee who need 
not be Outside Directors the authority to grant Awards to eligible persons who are either (I) not then Covered Employees 
and are not expected to be Covered Employees at the time of recognition of income resulting from such Stock Award, or (II) 
not persons with respect to whom the Company wishes to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code, and/or (B) delegate to 
a Committee who need not be Non-Employee Directors the authority to grant Stock Awards to eligible persons who are not 
then subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
(d) Delegation to Officers.  The Board may delegate to one or more Officers the authority to do one or both of the 
following (i) designate Employees who are not Officers to be recipients of Options and SARs (and, to the extent permitted 
by applicable law, other Stock Awards) and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the terms thereof, and (ii) determine 
the number of shares of Common Stock to be subject to such Stock Awards granted to such Employees; provided, however, 
that the Board resolutions regarding such delegation will specify the total number of shares of Common Stock that may be 
subject to the Stock Awards granted by such Officer and that such Officer may not grant a Stock Award to himself or herself.  
Any such Stock Awards will be granted on the form of Stock Award Agreement most recently approved for use by the 
Committee or the Board, unless otherwise provided in the resolutions approving the delegation authority.  Notwithstanding 
anything to the contrary in this Section 2(d), the Board may not delegate to an Officer who is acting solely in the capacity 
of an Officer (and not also as a Director) the authority to determine the Fair Market Value pursuant to Section 13(x)(iii) below. 
(e) Effect of Board’s Decision. All determinations, interpretations and constructions made by the Board in good faith 
will not be subject to review by any person and will be final, binding and conclusive on all persons.
(f) Cancellation and Re-Grant of Stock Awards.  Neither the Board nor any Committee will have the authority to: (i) 
reduce the exercise or strike price of any outstanding Options or Stock Appreciation Rights under the Plan, or (ii) cancel 
any outstanding Options or Stock Appreciation Rights that have an exercise price or strike price greater than the current 
Fair Market Value in exchange for cash or other Stock Awards under the Plan, unless the stockholders of the Company have 
approved such an action within twelve (12) months prior to such an event.
(g) Minimum Vesting Requirements.  Subject to Section 2(b)(iv), no Full Value Award granted on or after May 18, 2016, 
or Stock Award granted on or after May 16, 2018, may vest (or, if applicable, be exercisable) until at least 12 months following 
the date of grant of such Stock Award; provided, however, that up to 5% of the 2007 Plan Reserve (as defined in Section 3(a)) 
may be subject to Full Value Awards granted on or after May 18, 2016, or Stock Awards granted on or after May 16, 2018, 
respectively, that do not meet such vesting (and, if applicable, exercisability) requirements.
3. Shares Subject to the Plan.
(a) Share Reserve. Subject to the provisions of Section 9(a) relating to Capitalization Adjustments, the aggregate 
number of shares of Common Stock of the Company that may be issued pursuant to Stock Awards after the Effective Date 
will not exceed 229,567,766 shares (the “2007 Plan Reserve”).  Such maximum number of shares reserved for issuance 
consists of (i) 152,767,766 shares1, which is the total reserve that the Company’s stockholders approved at the Company’s 
2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, including but not limited to the shares remaining available for issuance under the 
Prior Plans on the Effective Date and the Prior Plans’ Returning Shares, (ii) 25,000,000 shares that were approved at the 
Company’s 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (and reapproved at the Company’s 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders), 
(iii) 10,000,000 shares that were approved at the Company’s 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, (iv) 18,800,000 shares 
that were approved at the Company’s 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and (v) 23,000,000 shares that were approved 
at the Company’s 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  For clarity, the 2007 Plan Reserve in this Section 3(a) is a limitation
___________
1  The initial 101,845,177 shares approved in June 2007 were adjusted to 152,767,766 pursuant to a 3-for-2 forward stock split effective September 10, 
2007.

--- Page 89 ---
A-4
on the number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued pursuant to the Plan.  Accordingly, this Section 3(a) does 
not limit the granting of Stock Awards except as provided in Section 7(a).  Shares may be issued in connection with a merger 
or acquisition as permitted by NASDAQ Listing Rule 5635(c) or, if applicable, NYSE Listed Company Manual Section 303A.
08, AMEX Company Guide Section 711 or other applicable rule, and such issuance will not reduce the number of shares 
available for issuance under the Plan.  
(b) Reversion of Shares to the Share Reserve. 
(i) Shares Available For Subsequent Issuance.  If any (x) Stock Award shall for any reason expire or otherwise 
terminate, in whole or in part, without having been exercised in full, (y) shares of Common Stock issued to a Participant 
pursuant to a Stock Award are forfeited to or repurchased by the Company at their original exercise or purchase price 
pursuant to the Company’s reacquisition or repurchase rights under the Plan, including any forfeiture or repurchase caused 
by the failure to meet a contingency or condition required for the vesting of such shares, or (z) Stock Award is settled in 
cash, then the shares of Common Stock not issued under such Stock Award, or forfeited to or repurchased by the Company, 
shall revert to and again become available for issuance under the Plan.
(ii) Shares Not Available for Subsequent Issuance.  If any shares subject to a Stock Award are not delivered 
to a Participant because such shares are withheld by the Company to satisfy the exercise or purchase price of a Stock 
Award (including any shares subject to a Stock Award that are not delivered to a Participant because the Stock Award is 
exercised through a reduction of shares subject to the Stock Award (i.e., “net exercised”)) or an appreciation distribution in 
respect of a Stock Appreciation Right is paid in shares of Common Stock, the number of shares subject to the Stock Award 
that are not delivered to the Participant shall not remain available for subsequent issuance under the Plan.  If any shares 
subject to a Stock Award are not delivered to a Participant because such shares are withheld by the Company in satisfaction 
of the withholding of taxes incurred in connection with a Stock Award, the number of shares that are not delivered to the 
Participant shall not remain available for subsequent issuance under the Plan.  If the exercise or purchase price of any 
Stock Award, or the withholding of taxes incurred in connection with a Stock Award, is satisfied by tendering shares of 
Common Stock held by the Participant (either by actual delivery or attestation), then the number of shares so tendered 
shall not remain available for subsequent issuance under the Plan.  If any shares of Common Stock are repurchased by the 
Company on the open market with the proceeds of the exercise or purchase price of a Stock Award, then the number of 
shares so repurchased shall not remain available for subsequent issuance under the Plan.  For purposes of the Plan, a 
“Prior Plan Award” means any option or stock award granted under any of the Prior Plans.
(c) Incentive Stock Option Limit.  Subject to the 2007 Plan Reserve and the provisions of Section 9(a) relating to 
Capitalization Adjustments, the aggregate maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued pursuant to 
the exercise of Incentive Stock Options under the Plan (including Incentive Stock Options granted under the Prior Plans) 
will be 250,000,000 shares of Common Stock.
(d) Section 162(m) Limitations.  Subject to the provisions of Section 9(a) relating to Capitalization Adjustments, at 
such time as the Company may be subject to the applicable provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code, no Participant will be 
eligible to be granted during any fiscal year:
(i) Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Stock Awards whose value is determined by reference to an 
increase over an exercise or strike price of at least one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value on the date the 
Stock Award is granted covering more than 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock;
(ii) Performance Stock Awards covering more than 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock; and
(iii) Performance Cash Award with a value of more than $6,000,000. 
If a Performance Stock Award is in the form of an Option, it will count only against the Performance Stock Award limit.  
If a Performance Stock Award could be paid out in cash, it will count only against the Performance Stock Award limit.
(e) Source of Shares.  The stock issuable under the Plan will be shares of authorized but unissued or reacquired 
Common Stock, including shares repurchased by the Company on the open market or otherwise.
4. Eligibility.
(a) Eligibility for Specific Stock Awards.  Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to employees of the Company 
or a “parent corporation” or “subsidiary corporation” thereof (as such terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and 424(f) of the 
Code).  Stock Awards other than Incentive Stock Options may be granted to Employees, Directors and Consultants; provided, 
however, that Stock Awards may not be granted to Employees, Directors and Consultants who are providing Continuous 
Service only to any “parent” of the Company, as such term is defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, unless (i) the stock 
underlying such Stock Awards is treated as “service recipient stock” under Section 409A of the Code (for example, because 
the Stock Awards are granted pursuant to a corporate transaction such as a spin off transaction), (ii) the Company, in 

--- Page 90 ---
A-5
connection with its legal counsel, has determined that such Stock Awards are otherwise exempt from Section 409A of the 
Code, or (iii) the Company, in connection with its legal counsel, has determined that such Stock Awards comply with the 
distribution requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
(b) Ten Percent Stockholders.  A Ten Percent Stockholder will not be granted an Incentive Stock Option unless the 
exercise price of such Option is at least one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value on the date of grant and 
the Option is not exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years from the date of grant.  
(c) Consultants.  A Consultant will be eligible for the grant of an Award only if, at the time of grant, a Form S-8 
Registration Statement under the Securities Act or a successor or similar form under the Securities Act (“Form S-8”) is 
available to register either the offer or the sale of the Company’s securities to such Consultant because of the nature of the 
services that the Consultant is providing to the Company, because the Consultant is a natural person, or because of any 
other rule governing the use of Form S-8.
5. Provisions Relating to Options and Stock Appreciation Rights.
Each Option or SAR will be in such form and will contain such terms and conditions as the Board will deem appropriate.  
All Options will be separately designated Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options at the time of grant, and, 
if certificates are issued, a separate certificate or certificates will be issued for shares of Common Stock purchased on 
exercise of each type of Option. If an Option is not specifically designated as an Incentive Stock Option, or if an Option is 
designated as an Incentive Stock Option but some portion or all of the Option fails to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option 
under the applicable rules, then the Option (or portion thereof) will be a Nonstatutory Stock Option. The provisions of separate 
Options or SARs need not be identical; provided, however, that each Award Agreement will include (through incorporation 
of provisions hereof by reference in the Award Agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
(a)   Term.  Subject to the provisions of Section 4(b) regarding Ten Percent Stockholders, no Option or SAR will be 
exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date of its grant or such shorter period specified in the Award 
Agreement (the “Expiration Date”).
(b) Exercise Price.  Subject to the provisions of Section 4(b) regarding Ten Percent Stockholders, and notwithstanding 
anything in the Award Agreement to the contrary, the exercise or strike price of each Option or SAR will not be less than 
the Fair Market Value subject to the Option or SAR on the date the Award is granted.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an 
Option or SAR may be granted with an exercise or strike price lower than the Fair Market Value subject to the Award if such 
Award is granted pursuant to an assumption or substitution for another option or stock appreciation right in a manner 
consistent with the provisions of Section 409A and, if applicable, Section 424(a) of the Code.  Each SAR will be denominated 
in shares of Common Stock equivalents.
(c) Consideration.  The purchase price of Common Stock acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option will be paid, 
to the extent permitted by applicable law and as determined by the Board in its sole discretion, by any combination of the 
methods of payment set forth below.  The Board will have the authority to grant Options that do not permit all of the following 
methods of payment (or otherwise restrict the ability to use certain methods) and to grant Options that require the consent 
of the Company to utilize a particular method of payment.  The methods of payment permitted by this Section 5(c) are:
(i) by cash, check, bank draft, money order or electronic funds transfer payable to the Company;
(ii) pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board that, 
prior to the issuance of the stock subject to the Option, results in either the receipt of cash (or check) by the Company or 
the receipt of irrevocable instructions to pay the aggregate exercise price to the Company from the sales proceeds; 
(iii) if an option is a Nonstatutory Stock Option, by a “net exercise” arrangement pursuant to which the Company 
will reduce the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise by the largest whole number of shares with a 
Fair Market Value that does not exceed the aggregate exercise price; provided, however, that the Company will accept a cash 
or other payment from the Participant to the extent of any remaining balance of the aggregate exercise price not satisfied 
by such reduction in the number of whole shares to be issued; provided, further, that shares of Common Stock will no longer 
be outstanding under an Option and will not be exercisable thereafter to the extent that (A) shares issuable upon exercise 
are reduced to pay the exercise price pursuant to the “net exercise,” (B) shares are delivered to the Participant as a result 
of such exercise, and (C) shares are withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations;  or 
(iv) in any other form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Board and specified in the applicable 
Award Agreement.  
(d) Exercise and Payment of a SAR.  To exercise any outstanding SAR, the Participant must provide written notice of 
exercise to the Company in compliance with the provisions of the Stock Appreciation Right Agreement evidencing such 
SAR.  The appreciation distribution payable on the exercise of a SAR will be not greater than an amount equal to the excess 

--- Page 91 ---
A-6
of (A) the aggregate Fair Market Value (on the date of the exercise of the SAR) of a number of shares of Common Stock 
equal to the number of Common Stock equivalents in which the Participant is vested under such SAR, and with respect to 
which the Participant is exercising the SAR on such date, over (B) the strike price.  The appreciation distribution may be 
paid in Common Stock, in cash, in any combination of the two or in any other form of consideration, as determined by the 
Board and contained in the Award Agreement evidencing such SAR.
(e) Transferability of Options and SARs.  The Board may, in its sole discretion, impose such limitations on the 
transferability of Options and SARs as the Board will determine.  If the Board determines that an Option or SAR will be 
transferable, the Option or SAR will contain such additional terms and conditions as the Board deems appropriate.  In the 
absence of such a determination by the Board to the contrary, the following restrictions on the transferability of Options 
and SARs will apply:
(i) Restrictions on Transfer.  An Option or SAR will not be transferable except by will or by the laws of descent 
and distribution (or pursuant to subsections (ii) and (iii) below) and will be exercisable during the lifetime of the Participant 
only by the Participant; provided, however, that the Board may, in its sole discretion, permit transfer of the Option or SAR in 
a manner consistent with applicable tax and securities laws upon the Participant’s request.  Except as explicitly provided 
herein, neither an Option nor a SAR may be transferred for consideration. 
(ii) Domestic Relations Orders.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, subject to the approval of the Board or a duly 
authorized Officer, an Option or SAR may be transferred pursuant to a domestic relations order or official marital settlement 
agreement; provided, however, that an Incentive Stock Option may be deemed to be a Nonstatutory Stock Option as a result 
of such transfer.  
(iii) Beneficiary Designation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, subject to the approval of the Board or a duly 
authorized Officer, a Participant may, by delivering written notice to the Company, in a form provided by or otherwise 
satisfactory to the Company (or the designated broker), designate a third party who, in the event of the death of the Participant, 
will thereafter be entitled to exercise the Option or SAR and receive the Common Stock or other consideration resulting 
from such exercise.  In the absence of such a designation, the executor or administrator of the Participant’s estate (or other 
party legally entitled to the Option or SAR proceeds) will be entitled to exercise the Option or SAR and receive the Common 
Stock or other consideration resulting from such exercise.  However, the Company may prohibit designation of a beneficiary 
at any time, including due to any conclusion by the Company that such designation would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of applicable laws or difficult to administer.  
(f) Vesting Generally.  The total number of shares of Common Stock subject to an Option or SAR may vest and therefore 
become exercisable in periodic installments that may or may not be equal.  The Option or SAR may be subject to such other 
terms and conditions on the time or times when it may or may not be exercised (which may be based on the satisfaction 
of Performance Goals or other criteria) as the Board may deem appropriate.  The vesting provisions of individual Options 
or SARs may vary; provided, however, that in all cases, in the event that a Participant’s Continuous Service terminates as a 
result of his or her death, then the Option or SAR will become fully vested and exercisable as of the date of termination of 
Continuous Service.  The provisions of this Section 5(f) are subject to any Option or SAR provisions governing the minimum 
number of shares of Common Stock as to which an Option or SAR may be exercised. 
(g) Termination of Continuous Service.  Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement or other 
agreement between the Participant and the Company, in the event that a Participant’s Continuous Service terminates (other 
than for Cause or upon the Participant’s death or Disability), the Participant may exercise his or her Option or SAR (to the 
extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise such Award as of the date of termination of Continuous Service) but only 
within such period of time ending on the earlier of (i) the date 90 days following the termination of the Participant’s Continuous 
Service, or (ii) the expiration of the term of the Option or SAR as set forth in the Award Agreement.  If, after termination of 
Continuous Service, the Participant does not exercise his or her Option or SAR within the time specified herein or in the 
Award Agreement (as applicable), the Option or SAR will terminate. 
(h) Extension of Termination Date.  If the exercise of an Option or SAR following the termination of the Participant’s 
Continuous Service (other than for Cause or upon the Participant’s death or Disability) would either (i) be prohibited solely 
because the issuance of shares of Common Stock would violate the registration requirements under the Securities Act, or 
(ii) subject the Participant to short-swing liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act due to a transaction engaged in 
by the Participant prior to his or her termination of Continuous Service, then the Option or SAR will terminate on the earlier 
of (A) the expiration of a period of 90 days after the termination of the Participant’s Continuous Service during which the 
exercise of the Option or SAR would not be in violation of such registration requirements and would not subject the Participant 
to short-swing liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, or (B) the expiration of the term of the Option or SAR as set 
forth in the Award Agreement.  All determinations under this Section 5(h) will be made in the sole discretion of the Board.

--- Page 92 ---
A-7
(i) Disability of Participant.  Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement or other agreement 
between the Participant and the Company, in the event that a Participant’s Continuous Service terminates as a result of the 
Participant’s Disability, the Participant may exercise his or her Option or SAR (to the extent that the Participant was entitled 
to exercise such Option or SAR as of the date of termination of Continuous Service), but only within such period of time 
ending on the earlier of (i) the date 12 months following such termination of Continuous Service, or (ii) the expiration of the 
term of the Option or SAR as set forth in the Award Agreement.  If, after termination of Continuous Service, the Participant 
does not exercise his or her Option or SAR within the time specified herein or in the Award Agreement (as applicable), the 
Option or SAR will terminate.
(j) Death of Participant.  Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement or other agreement between 
the Participant and the Company, in the event that (i) a Participant’s Continuous Service terminates as a result of the 
Participant’s death (which termination event will give rise to acceleration of vesting as described in Section 5(f) above), or 
(ii) the Participant dies within the period (if any) specified in the Award Agreement after the termination of the Participant’s 
Continuous Service for a reason other than death (which event will not give rise to acceleration of vesting as described in 
Section 5(f) above), then the Option or SAR may be exercised (to the extent the Participant was entitled to exercise such 
Option or SAR as of the date of death) by the Participant’s estate, by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option 
or SAR by bequest or inheritance or by a person designated to exercise the Option or SAR upon the Participant’s death, but 
only within the period ending on the earlier of (A) the date 18 months following the date of death, or (B) the expiration of 
the term of such Option or SAR as set forth in the Award Agreement.  If, after the Participant’s death, the Option or SAR is 
not exercised within the time specified herein or in the Award Agreement (as applicable), the Option or SAR will terminate.
(k) Termination for Cause.  Except as explicitly provided otherwise in a Participant’s Award Agreement, or other 
individual written agreement between the Company or any Affiliate and the Participant, if a Participant’s Continuous Service 
is terminated for Cause, the Option or SAR will terminate immediately upon such Participant’s termination of Continuous 
Service, and the Participant will be prohibited from exercising his or her Option or SAR from and after the time of such 
termination of Continuous Service.
(l) Non-Exempt Employees.  No Option or SAR granted to an Employee that is a non-exempt employee for purposes 
of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, will be first exercisable for any shares of Common Stock until at least 
six (6) months following the date of grant of the Option or SAR (although the Award may vest prior to such date).  Consistent 
with the provisions of the Worker Economic Opportunity Act, (i) if such non-exempt Employee dies or suffers a Disability, 
(ii) upon a Corporate Transaction in which such Option or SAR is not assumed, continued, or substituted, (iii) upon a Change 
in Control, or (iv) upon the Participant’s retirement (as such term may be defined in the Participant’s Award Agreement or 
in another agreement between the Participant and the Company, or, if no such definition, in accordance with the Company’s 
then current employment policies and guidelines), the vested portion of any Options and SARs may be exercised earlier 
than six (6) months following the date of grant.  The foregoing provision is intended to operate so that any income derived 
by a non-exempt employee in connection with the exercise or vesting of an Option or SAR will be exempt from his or her 
regular rate of pay.  To the extent permitted and/or required for compliance with the Worker Economic Opportunity Act to 
ensure that any income derived by a non-exempt employee in connection with the exercise, vesting or issuance of any 
shares under any other Stock Award will be exempt from the employee’s regular rate of pay, the provisions of this Section 
5(k) will apply to all Stock Awards and are hereby incorporated by reference into such Stock Award Agreements. 
6. Provisions of Stock Awards other than Options and SARs.
(a) Restricted Stock Awards.  Each Restricted Stock Award Agreement will be in such form and will contain such 
terms and conditions as the Board will deem appropriate.  To the extent consistent with the Company’s Bylaws, at the 
Board’s election, shares of Common Stock may be (x) held in book entry form subject to the Company’s instructions until 
any restrictions relating to the Restricted Stock Award lapse; or (y) evidenced by a certificate, which certificate will be held 
in such form and manner as determined by the Board.  The terms and conditions of Restricted Stock Award Agreements 
may change from time to time, and the terms and conditions of separate Restricted Stock Award Agreements need not be 
identical, provided, however, that each Restricted Stock Award Agreement will include (through incorporation of the provisions 
hereof by reference in the Award Agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
(i) Consideration.  A Restricted Stock Award may be awarded in consideration for (A) cash, check, bank draft, 
money order or electronic funds transfer payable to the Company, (B) past services rendered to the Company or an Affiliate, 
or (C) any other form of legal consideration (including future services) that may be acceptable to the Board, in its sole 
discretion, and permissible under applicable law.
(ii) Vesting.  Subject to Section 2(g), shares of Common Stock awarded under a Restricted Stock Award 
Agreement may be subject to forfeiture to the Company in accordance with a vesting schedule to be determined by the 
Board; provided, however, that in all cases, in the event a Participant’s Continuous Service terminates as a result of his or 
her death, then the Restricted Stock Award will become fully vested as of the date of termination of Continuous Service.

--- Page 93 ---
A-8
(iii) Termination of Participant’s Continuous Service.  In the event a Participant’s Continuous Service 
terminates, the Company may receive via a forfeiture condition or a repurchase right any or all of the shares of Common 
Stock held by the Participant which have not vested as of the date of termination of Continuous Service under the terms of 
the Restricted Stock Award Agreement.
(iv) Transferability.  Rights to acquire shares of Common Stock under the Restricted Stock Award Agreement 
will be transferable by the Participant only upon such terms and conditions as are set forth in the Restricted Stock Award 
Agreement, as the Board will determine in its sole discretion, so long as Common Stock awarded under the Restricted Stock 
Award Agreement remains subject to the terms of the Restricted Stock Award Agreement.
(v) Dividends.  A Restricted Stock Award Agreement may provide that any dividends paid on Restricted Stock 
will be subject to the same vesting and forfeiture restrictions as apply to the shares subject to the Restricted Stock Award 
to which they relate.
(b) Restricted Stock Unit Awards.  Each Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement will be in such form and will contain 
such terms and conditions as the Board will deem appropriate.  The terms and conditions of Restricted Stock Unit Award 
Agreements may change from time to time, and the terms and conditions of separate Restricted Stock Unit Award 
Agreements need not be identical, provided, however, that each Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement will include (through 
incorporation of the provisions hereof by reference in the Award Agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the 
following provisions:
(i) Consideration.  At the time of grant of a Restricted Stock Unit Award, the Board will determine the 
consideration, if any, to be paid by the Participant upon delivery of each share of Common Stock subject to the Restricted 
Stock Unit Award. The consideration to be paid (if any) by the Participant for each share of Common Stock subject to a 
Restricted Stock Unit Award may be paid in any form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Board in its sole 
discretion and permissible under applicable law.
(ii) Vesting.  Subject to Section 2(g), at the time of the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit Award, the Board may 
impose such restrictions or conditions to the vesting of the Restricted Stock Unit Award as it, in its sole discretion, deems 
appropriate; provided, however, that in all cases, in the event a Participant’s Continuous Service terminates as a result of 
his or her death, then the Restricted Stock Unit Award will become fully vested as of the date of termination of Continuous 
Service.
(iii) Payment.  A Restricted Stock Unit Award may be settled by the delivery of shares of Common Stock, their 
cash equivalent, any combination thereof or in any other form of consideration, as determined by the Board and contained 
in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement.
(iv) Additional Restrictions.  At the time of the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit Award, the Board, as it deems 
appropriate, may impose such restrictions or conditions that delay the delivery of the shares of Common Stock (or their 
cash equivalent) subject to a Restricted Stock Unit Award to a time after the vesting of such Restricted Stock Unit Award.
(v) Dividend Equivalents.  Dividend equivalents may be credited in respect of shares of Common Stock covered 
by a Restricted Stock Unit Award, as determined by the Board and contained in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement.  
At the sole discretion of the Board, such dividend equivalents may be converted into additional shares of Common Stock 
covered by the Restricted Stock Unit Award in such manner as determined by the Board.  Any additional shares covered 
by the Restricted Stock Unit Award credited by reason of such dividend equivalents or the cash amount of any such credited 
dividend equivalents that are not converted into additional shares will be subject to all of the same terms and conditions 
of the underlying Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement to which they relate.  
(vi) Termination of Participant’s Continuous Service.  Except as otherwise provided in the applicable 
Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, such portion of the Restricted Stock Unit Award that has not vested will be forfeited 
upon the Participant’s termination of Continuous Service. 
(c) Performance Awards. 
(i) Performance Stock Awards.  A Performance Stock Award is a Stock Award that is payable (including that 
may be granted, vest or exercised) contingent upon the attainment during a Performance Period of certain Performance 
Goals.  A Performance Stock Award may require the completion of a specified period of Continuous Service.  In the event 
a Participant’s Continuous Service terminates as a result of his or her death, then the Performance Stock Award will be 
deemed to have been earned at 100% of the target level of performance, will be fully vested, as of the date of death, and 
shares thereunder will be issued promptly following the date of death.  Subject to Section 2(g), the length of any Performance 
Period, the Performance Goals to be achieved during the Performance Period, and the measure of whether and to what 
degree such Performance Goals have been attained will be conclusively determined by the Committee (or, to the extent that 
an Award is not intended to qualify as “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Board), 

--- Page 94 ---
A-9
in its sole discretion.  In addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law and the applicable Award Agreement, the Board 
or the Committee, as applicable, may determine that cash may be used in payment of Performance Stock Awards.  
(ii) Performance Cash Awards.  A Performance Cash Award is a cash award that is payable contingent upon 
the attainment during a Performance Period of certain Performance Goals.  A Performance Cash Award may also require 
the completion of a specified period of Continuous Service.  Subject to Section 2(g), the length of any Performance Period, 
the Performance Goals to be achieved during the Performance Period, and the measure of whether and to what degree 
such Performance Goals have been attained will be conclusively determined by the Committee (or, to the extent that an 
Award is not intended to qualify as “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Board), in 
its sole discretion.  The Board or the Committee, as applicable, may provide for or, subject to such terms and conditions as 
the Board or the Committee, as applicable, may specify, may permit a Participant to elect for, the payment of any Performance 
Cash Award to be deferred to a specified date or event.  The Board or the Committee, as applicable, may specify the form 
of payment of Performance Cash Awards, which may be cash or other property, or may provide for a Participant to have 
the option for his or her Performance Cash Award, or such portion thereof as the Board or the Committee, as applicable, 
may specify, to be paid in whole or in part in cash or other property.  In addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law 
and the applicable Award Agreement, the Board or the Committee, as applicable, may determine that Common Stock 
authorized under this Plan may be used in payment of Performance Cash Awards, including additional shares in excess of 
the Performance Cash Award as an inducement to hold shares of Common Stock.
(iii) Section 162(m) Compliance.  Unless otherwise permitted in compliance with the requirements of Section 
162(m) of the Code with respect to any Award intended to qualify as “performance-based compensation” thereunder, the 
Committee will establish the Performance Goals applicable to, and the formula for calculating the amount payable under, 
the Award no later than the earlier of (a) the date 90 days after the commencement of the applicable Performance Period, 
and (b) the date on which 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed, and in any event at a time when the achievement 
of the applicable Performance Goals remains substantially uncertain.  Prior to the payment of any compensation under an 
Award intended to qualify as “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee will 
certify the extent to which any Performance Goals and any other material terms under such Award have been satisfied 
(other than in cases where such relate solely to the increase in the value of the Common Stock).  With respect to any Award 
intended to qualify as “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may reduce 
or eliminate the compensation or economic benefit due upon the attainment of the applicable Performance Goals on the 
basis of any such further considerations as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine.  
(d) Other Stock Awards.  Other forms of Stock Awards valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based 
on, Common Stock, including the appreciation in value thereof may be granted either alone or in addition to Stock Awards 
provided for under Section 5 and the preceding provisions of this Section 6.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan (including, 
but not limited to, Section 2(g)), the Board will have sole and complete authority to determine the persons to whom and the 
time or times at which such Other Stock Awards will be granted, the number of shares of Common Stock (or the cash 
equivalent thereof) to be granted pursuant to such Other Stock Awards and all other terms and conditions of such Other 
Stock Awards; provided, however, that in all cases, in the event a Participant’s Continuous Service terminates as a result of 
his or her death, then any Other Stock Awards held by such Participant will become fully vested as of the date of termination 
of Continuous Service.  
7. Covenants of the Company.
(a) Availability of Shares.  During the terms of the Stock Awards, the Company will keep available at all times the 
number of shares of Common Stock reasonably required to satisfy such Stock Awards.
(b) Securities Law Compliance.  The Company will seek to obtain from each regulatory commission or agency having 
jurisdiction over the Plan, or any offerings made under the Plan, such authority as may be required to grant Stock Awards 
and to issue and sell shares of Common Stock upon exercise of the Stock Awards; provided, however, that this undertaking 
will not require the Company to register under the Securities Act the Plan, any Stock Award or any Common Stock issued 
or issuable pursuant to any such Stock Award nor seek to obtain such approval if the cost or efforts to obtain the approval 
is unreasonable in relation to the value of the benefits to be provided under the Plan, as determined by the Company in its 
sole discretion.  If, after reasonable efforts and at a reasonable cost, the Company is unable to obtain from any such regulatory 
commission or agency the authority that counsel for the Company deems necessary for the lawful issuance and sale of 
Common Stock under the Plan, the Company will be relieved from any liability for failure to issue and sell Common Stock 
upon exercise of such Stock Awards unless and until such authority is obtained.  A Participant will not be eligible for the 
grant of an Award or the subsequent issuance of cash or Common Stock pursuant to the Award if such grant or issuance 
would be in violation of any applicable securities laws. 
(c) No Obligation to Notify or Minimize Taxes.  The Company will have no duty or obligation to any Participant to advise 
such Participant as to the time or manner of exercising such Stock Award.  Furthermore, the Company will have no duty 

--- Page 95 ---
A-10
or obligation to warn or otherwise advise such holder of a pending termination or expiration of an Award or a possible 
period in which the Award may not be exercised.  Neither the Company nor any of its Affiliates has any duty or obligation 
to minimize the tax consequences of an Award to the holder of such Award.
8. Miscellaneous.
(a) Use of Proceeds.  Proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock pursuant to Awards will constitute general 
funds of the Company.
(b) Corporate Action Constituting Grant of Stock Awards.  Corporate action constituting a grant by the Company of 
an Award to any Participant will be deemed completed as of the date of such corporate action, unless otherwise determined 
by the Board, regardless of when the instrument, certificate, or letter evidencing the Award is communicated to, or actually 
received or accepted by, the Participant.  In the event that the corporate records (e.g., Board consents, resolutions or minutes) 
documenting the corporate action constituting the grant contain terms (e.g., exercise price, vesting schedule or number of 
shares) that are inconsistent with those in the Award Agreement as a result of a clerical error in the papering of the Award 
Agreement, the corporate records will control and the Participant will have no legally binding right to the incorrect term in 
the Award Agreement.
(c) Stockholder Rights.  No Participant will be deemed to be the holder of, or to have any of the rights of a holder with 
respect to, any shares of Common Stock subject to an Award unless and until (i) such Participant has satisfied all 
requirements for exercise of, or the issuance of shares under, the Award pursuant to its terms and (ii) the issuance of the 
Common Stock subject to such Award has been entered into the books and records of the Company.
(d) No Employment or Other Service Rights.  Nothing in the Plan, any Award Agreement or any other instrument 
executed thereunder or in connection with any Award granted pursuant to the Plan will confer upon any Participant any 
right to continue to serve the Company or an Affiliate in the capacity in effect at the time the Award was granted or will 
affect the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate (i) the employment of an Employee with or without notice and 
with or without cause (provided in compliance with applicable local laws and the Employee’s employment contract, if any), 
(ii) the service of a Consultant pursuant to the terms of such Consultant’s agreement with the Company or an Affiliate, or 
(iii) the service of a Director pursuant to the Bylaws of the Company or an Affiliate, and any applicable provisions of the 
corporate law of the state in which the Company or the Affiliate is incorporated, as the case may be.
(e) Change in Time Commitment.  In the event a Participant’s regular level of time commitment in the performance 
of his or her services for the Company or any Affiliates is reduced (for example, and without limitation, if the Participant is 
an Employee of the Company and the Employee has a change in status from a full-time Employee to a part-time Employee) 
after the date of grant of any Award to the Participant, the Board has the right in its sole discretion (provided in compliance 
with applicable local laws) to (i) make a corresponding reduction in the number of shares or cash amount subject to any 
portion of such Award that is scheduled to vest or become payable after the date of such change in time commitment, and 
(ii) in lieu of or in combination with such a reduction, extend the vesting or payment schedule applicable to such Award.  In 
the event of any such reduction, the Participant will have no right with respect to any portion of the Award that is so reduced.
(f) Incentive Stock Option Limitation.  To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the time of 
grant) with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by any Optionholder during any 
calendar year (under all plans of the Company and any Affiliates) exceeds $100,000 (or such other limit established in the 
Code) or otherwise does not comply with the rules governing Incentive Stock Options, the Options or portions thereof that 
exceed such limit (according to the order in which they were granted) or otherwise do not comply with the rules will be 
treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options, notwithstanding any contrary provision of the applicable Option Agreement(s) or 
any Board or Committee resolutions related thereto.
(g) Investment Assurances.  The Company may require a Participant, as a condition of exercising or acquiring Common 
Stock under any Award, (i) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company as to the Participant’s knowledge and 
experience in financial and business matters and/or to employ a purchaser representative reasonably satisfactory to the 
Company who is knowledgeable and experienced in financial and business matters and that he or she is capable of evaluating, 
alone or together with the purchaser representative, the merits and risks of exercising the Award; and (ii) to give written 
assurances satisfactory to the Company stating that the Participant is acquiring Common Stock subject to the Award for 
the Participant’s own account and not with any present intention of selling or otherwise distributing the Common Stock.  
The foregoing requirements, and any assurances given pursuant to such requirements, will be inoperative if (A) the issuance 
of the shares upon the exercise or acquisition of Common Stock under the Award has been registered under a then currently 
effective registration statement under the Securities Act, or (B) as to any particular requirement, a determination is made 
by counsel for the Company that such requirement need not be met in the circumstances under the then applicable securities 
laws.  The Company may, upon advice of counsel to the Company, place legends on stock certificates issued under the Plan 

--- Page 96 ---
A-11
as such counsel deems necessary or appropriate in order to comply with applicable securities laws, including, but not 
limited to, legends restricting the transfer of the Common Stock. 
(h) Withholding Obligations.  Unless prohibited by the terms of an Award Agreement, the Company may, in its sole 
discretion, satisfy any federal, state, foreign or local tax withholding obligation relating to an Award (including but not limited 
to income tax, social insurance contributions, payment on account or any other taxes) by any of the following means (in 
addition to the Company’s right to withhold from any compensation paid to the Participant by the Company or an Affiliate) 
or by a combination of such means: (i) causing the Participant to tender a cash payment; (ii)  withholding shares of Common 
Stock from the shares of Common Stock issued or otherwise issuable to the Participant in connection with the Award; 
provided, however, that no shares of Common Stock are withheld with a value exceeding the maximum amount of tax required 
to be withheld by law (or such other amount as may be necessary to avoid classification of the Stock Award as a liability 
for financial accounting purposes); (iii) withholding cash from an Award settled in cash; (iv) withholding payment from any 
amounts otherwise payable to the Participant; or (v) by such other method as may be set forth in the Award Agreement. 
(i) Electronic Delivery.  Any reference herein to a “written” agreement or document will include any agreement or 
document delivered electronically, filed publicly at www.sec.gov (or any successor website thereto) or posted on the 
Company’s intranet.
(j) Deferrals.  To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Board, in its sole discretion, may determine that the 
delivery of Common Stock or the payment of cash, upon the exercise, vesting or settlement of all or a portion of any Award 
may be deferred and may establish programs and procedures for deferral elections to be made by Participants.  Deferrals 
by Participants will be made in accordance with Section 409A of the Code. Consistent with Section 409A of the Code, the 
Board may provide for distributions while a Participant is still an employee or otherwise providing services to the Company 
or an Affiliate.  The Board is authorized to make deferrals of Awards and determine when, and in what annual percentages, 
Participants may receive payments, including lump sum payments, following the Participant’s termination of Continuous 
Service, and implement such other terms and conditions consistent with the provisions of the Plan and in accordance with 
applicable law.
(k) Compliance with Section 409A.  Unless otherwise expressly provided for in an Award Agreement, the Plan and 
Award Agreements will be interpreted to the greatest extent possible in a manner that makes the Plan and the Awards 
granted hereunder exempt from Section 409A of the Code, and, to the extent not so exempt, in compliance with Section 
409A of the Code.  If the Board determines that any Award granted hereunder is not exempt from and is therefore subject 
to Section 409A of the Code, the Award Agreement evidencing such Award will incorporate the terms and conditions 
necessary to avoid the consequences specified in Section 409A(a)(1) of the Code, and to the extent an Award Agreement is 
silent on terms necessary for compliance, such terms are hereby incorporated by reference into the Award Agreement.  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan (and unless the Award Agreement specifically provides otherwise), if 
the shares of Common Stock are publicly traded, and if a Participant holding an Award that constitutes “deferred 
compensation” under Section 409A of the Code is a “specified employee” for purposes of Section 409A of the Code, no 
distribution or payment of any amount that is due because of a “separation from service” (as defined in Section 409A of the 
Code without regard to alternative definitions thereunder) will be issued or paid before the date that is six (6) months 
following the date of such Participant’s “separation from service” or, if earlier, the date of the Participant’s death, unless 
such distribution or payment can be made in a manner that complies with Section 409A of the Code, and any amounts so 
deferred will be paid in a lump sum on the day after such six (6) month period elapses, with the balance paid thereafter on 
the original schedule.
(l) Clawback/Recovery.  All Awards granted under the Plan will be subject to recoupment in accordance with any 
clawback policy that the Company is required to adopt pursuant to the listing standards of any national securities exchange 
or association on which the Company’s securities are listed or as is otherwise required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
Reform and Consumer Protection Act or other applicable law.  In addition, the Board may impose such other clawback, 
recovery or recoupment provisions in an Award Agreement as the Board determines necessary or appropriate, including 
but not limited to a reacquisition right in respect of previously acquired shares of Common Stock or other cash or property 
upon the occurrence of Cause.
9. Adjustments upon Changes in Common Stock; Other Corporate Events.
(a) Capitalization Adjustments.  In the event of a Capitalization Adjustment, the Board will appropriately and 
proportionately adjust: (i) the class(es) and maximum number of securities subject to the Plan pursuant to Section 3(a); (ii) 
the class(es) and maximum number of securities that may be issued pursuant to the exercise of Incentive Stock Options 
pursuant to Section 3(c); (iii) the class(es) and maximum number of securities that may be awarded to any person pursuant 
to Section 3(d); and (iv) the class(es) and number of securities and price per share of stock subject to outstanding Stock 
Awards.  The Board will make such adjustments, and its determination will be final, binding and conclusive.  

--- Page 97 ---
A-12
(b) Dissolution or Liquidation.  Except as otherwise provided in the Stock Award Agreement, in the event of a dissolution 
or liquidation of the Company, and upon ten (10) days prior written notice, all outstanding Stock Awards (other than Stock 
Awards consisting of vested and outstanding shares of Common Stock not subject to the Company’s right of repurchase 
or a forfeiture condition) will terminate immediately prior to the completion of such dissolution or liquidation, and the shares 
of Common Stock subject to the Company’s repurchase rights or a forfeiture condition may be repurchased or reacquired 
by the Company notwithstanding the fact that the holder of such Stock Award is providing Continuous Service, provided, 
however, that the Board may, in its sole discretion, cause some or all Stock Awards to become fully vested, exercisable and/
or no longer subject to repurchase or forfeiture (to the extent such Stock Awards have not previously expired or terminated) 
before the dissolution or liquidation is completed but contingent on its completion. 
(c) Corporate Transaction.   
(i) Stock Awards May Be Assumed.  Except as otherwise stated in the Stock Award Agreement, in the event 
of a Corporate Transaction, any surviving corporation or acquiring corporation (or the surviving or acquiring corporation’s 
parent company) may assume or continue any or all Stock Awards outstanding under the Plan or may substitute similar 
stock awards for Stock Awards outstanding under the Plan (including but not limited to, awards to acquire the same 
consideration paid to the stockholders of the Company pursuant to the Corporate Transaction), and any reacquisition or 
repurchase rights held by the Company in respect of Common Stock issued pursuant to Stock Awards may be assigned by 
the Company to the successor of the Company (or the successor’s parent company, if any), in connection with such Corporate 
Transaction.  A surviving corporation or acquiring corporation (or its parent) may choose to assume or continue only a 
portion of a Stock Award or substitute a similar stock award for only a portion of a Stock Award.  
(ii) Stock Awards Not Assumed Held by Current Participants.  Except as otherwise stated in the Stock Award 
Agreement (including an option and stock award agreement subject to the terms of the Prior Plans, which terms remain 
applicable as to outstanding options and stock awards thereunder), in the event of a Corporate Transaction in which the 
surviving corporation or acquiring corporation (or its parent company) does not assume or continue any or all outstanding 
Stock Awards or substitute similar stock awards for such outstanding Stock Awards, then with respect to Stock Awards 
that have not been assumed, continued or substituted and that are held by Participants whose Continuous Service has not 
terminated prior to the effective time of the Corporate Transaction (referred to as the “Current Participants”), the vesting of 
such Stock Awards (and, if applicable, the time at which such Stock Awards may be exercised) will (contingent upon the 
effectiveness of the Corporate Transaction) be accelerated in full to a date prior to the effective time of such Corporate 
Transaction as the Board will determine (or, if the Board will not determine such a date, to the date that is five business (5) 
days prior to the effective time of the Corporate Transaction), and such Stock Awards will terminate if not exercised (if 
applicable) at or prior to the effective time of the Corporate Transaction, and any reacquisition or repurchase rights held 
by the Company with respect to such Stock Awards will lapse (contingent upon the effectiveness of the Corporate 
Transaction). 
(iii) Stock Awards Not Assumed Held by Persons other than Current Participants.  Except as otherwise stated 
in the Stock Award Agreement (including an option and stock award agreement subject to the terms of the Prior Plans, 
which terms remain applicable as to outstanding options and stock awards thereunder), in the event of a Corporate 
Transaction in which the surviving corporation or acquiring corporation (or its parent company) does not assume or continue 
any or all outstanding Stock Awards or substitute similar stock awards for such outstanding Stock Awards, then with respect 
to Stock Awards that have not been assumed, continued or substituted and that are held by persons other than Current 
Participants, the vesting of such Stock Awards (and, if applicable, the time at which such Stock Award may be exercised) 
will not be accelerated and such Stock Awards (other than a Stock Award consisting of vested and outstanding shares of 
Common Stock not subject to the Company’s right of repurchase), upon advance written notice by the Company of at least 
five (5) business days to the holders of such Stock Awards, will terminate if not exercised (if applicable) prior to the effective 
time of the Corporate Transaction; provided, however, that any reacquisition or repurchase rights held by the Company with 
respect to such Stock Awards will not terminate and may continue to be exercised notwithstanding the Corporate 
Transaction.  
(d) Change in Control.  
(i) Stock Awards May Be Assumed.  Except as otherwise stated in the Stock Award Agreement, in the event 
of a Change in Control, any surviving corporation or acquiring corporation (or the surviving or acquiring corporation’s parent 
company) may assume or continue any or all Stock Awards outstanding under the Plan or may substitute similar stock 
awards for Stock Awards outstanding under the Plan (including but not limited to, awards to acquire the same consideration 
paid to the stockholders of the Company pursuant to the Change in Control), and any reacquisition or repurchase rights 
held by the Company in respect of Common Stock issued pursuant to Stock Awards may be assigned by the Company to 
the successor of the Company (or the successor’s parent company, if any), in connection with such Change in Control.  A 

--- Page 98 ---
A-13
surviving corporation or acquiring corporation (or its parent) may choose to assume or continue only a portion of a Stock 
Award or substitute a similar stock award for only a portion of a Stock Award.  
(ii) Stock Awards Not Assumed Held by Current Participants.  Except as otherwise stated in the Stock Award 
Agreement (including an option and stock award agreement subject to the terms of the Prior Plans, which terms remain 
applicable as to outstanding options and stock awards thereunder), in the event of a Change in Control in which the surviving 
corporation or acquiring corporation (or its parent company) does not assume or continue any or all outstanding Stock 
Awards or substitute similar stock awards for such outstanding Stock Awards, then with respect to Stock Awards that have 
not been assumed, continued or substituted and that are held by Current Participants, the vesting of such Stock Awards 
(and, if applicable, the time at which such Stock Awards may be exercised) will (contingent upon the effectiveness of the 
Change in Control) be accelerated in full to a date prior to the effective time of such Change in Control as the Board will 
determine (or, if the Board will not determine such a date, to the date that is five business (5) days prior to the effective time 
of the Change in Control), and such Stock Awards will terminate if not exercised (if applicable) at or prior to the effective 
time of the Change in Control, and any reacquisition or repurchase rights held by the Company with respect to such Stock 
Awards will lapse (contingent upon the effectiveness of the Change in Control). 
(iii) Stock Awards Not Assumed Held by Persons other than Current Participants.  Except as otherwise stated 
in the Stock Award Agreement (including an option and stock award agreement subject to the terms of the Prior Plans, 
which terms remain applicable as to outstanding options and stock awards thereunder), in the event of a Change in Control 
in which the surviving corporation or acquiring corporation (or its parent company) does not assume or continue any or all 
outstanding Stock Awards or substitute similar stock awards for such outstanding Stock Awards, then with respect to Stock 
Awards that have not been assumed, continued or substituted and that are held by persons other than Current Participants, 
the vesting of such Stock Awards (and, if applicable, the time at which such Stock Award may be exercised) will not be 
accelerated and such Stock Awards (other than a Stock Award consisting of vested and outstanding shares of Common 
Stock not subject to the Company’s right of repurchase), upon advance written notice by the Company of at least five (5) 
business days to the holders of such Stock Awards, will terminate if not exercised (if applicable) prior to the effective time 
of the Change in Control; provided, however, that any reacquisition or repurchase rights held by the Company with respect 
to such Stock Awards will not terminate and may continue to be exercised notwithstanding the Change in Control.  
(iv) Additional Provisions.  A Stock Award may be subject to additional acceleration of vesting and exercisability 
upon or after a Change in Control as may be provided in the Stock Award Agreement for such Stock Award or as may be 
provided in any other written agreement between the Company or any Affiliate and the Participant.  A Stock Award may 
vest as to all or any portion of the shares subject to the Stock Award (i) immediately upon the occurrence of a Change in 
Control, whether or not such Stock Award is assumed, continued, or substituted by a surviving or acquiring entity in the 
Change in Control, and/or (ii) in the event a Participant’s Continuous Service is terminated, actually or constructively, within 
a designated period following the occurrence of a Change in Control, but in the absence of such provision, no such acceleration 
will occur.  
10. Termination or Suspension of the Plan.
(a) Plan Term.  Unless sooner terminated by the Board pursuant to Section 2, the Plan will automatically terminate 
on the day before the tenth (10th) anniversary of the earlier of (i) the date the Plan is adopted by the Board or a duly authorized 
Committee, or (ii) the date the Plan is approved by the stockholders of the Company.  The Board may suspend the Plan at 
anytime.  No Awards may be granted under the Plan while the Plan is suspended or after it is terminated.
11. Effective Date of Plan.
This Plan will become effective on the Effective Date.  
12. Choice of Law.
The law of the State of Delaware will govern all questions concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of 
this Plan, without regard to that state’s conflict of laws rules.
13. Definitions.   
As used in the Plan, the following definitions will apply to the capitalized terms indicated below:  
(a) “Affiliate” means, at the time of determination, any “parent” or “subsidiary” of the Company as such terms are 
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  The Board will have the authority to determine the time or times at which “parent” 
or “subsidiary” status is determined within the foregoing definition.
(b) “Award” means a Stock Award or a Performance Cash Award.

--- Page 99 ---
A-14
(c) “Award Agreement” means a written agreement between the Company and a Participant evidencing the terms and 
conditions of an Award.  
(d) “Board” means the Board of Directors of the Company.
(e) “Capitalization Adjustment” means any change that is made in, or other events that occur with respect to, the 
Common Stock subject to the Plan or subject to any Stock Award after the Effective Date without the receipt of consideration 
by the Company through merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, reincorporation, stock dividend, dividend 
in property other than cash, stock split, liquidating dividend, combination of shares, exchange of shares, change in corporate 
structure or any similar equity restructuring transaction, as that term is used in Financial Accounting Standards Board 
Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718 (or any successor thereto).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the conversion of 
any convertible securities of the Company will not be treated as a Capitalization Adjustment.
(f) “Cause” means (i) if a Participant is party to an agreement with the Company or an Affiliate that relates to equity 
awards and contains a definition of “Cause,” the definition of “Cause” in the applicable agreement, or (ii) if a Participant is 
not party to any such agreement, such Participant’s termination because of (A) any willful, material violation by the Participant 
of any law or regulation applicable to the business of the Company or an Affiliate, the Participant’s conviction for, or guilty 
plea to, a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude, or any willful perpetration by the Participant of a common law fraud, 
(B) the Participant’s commission of an act of personal dishonesty that involves personal profit in connection with the Company 
or any other entity having a business relationship with the Company, (C) any material breach by the Participant of any 
provision of any agreement or understanding between the Company or an Affiliate and the Participant regarding the terms 
of the Participant’s service as an Employee, Officer, Director or Consultant to the Company or an Affiliate, including without 
limitation, the willful and continued failure or refusal of the Participant to perform the material duties required of such 
Participant as an Employee, Officer, Director or Consultant of the Company or an Affiliate, other than as a result of having 
a Disability, or a breach of any applicable invention assignment and confidentiality agreement or similar agreement between 
the Company or an Affiliate and the Participant, (D) the Participant’s disregard of the policies of the Company or an Affiliate 
so as to cause loss, damage or injury to the property, reputation or employees of the Company or an Affiliate, or (E) any 
other misconduct by the Participant that is materially injurious to the financial condition or business reputation of, or is 
otherwise materially injurious to, the Company or an Affiliate.
(g)  “Change in Control” means the occurrence, in a single transaction or in a series of related transactions, of any one 
or more of the following events: 
(i) any Exchange Act Person becomes the Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company 
representing more than 50% of the combined voting power of the Company’s then outstanding securities other than by 
virtue of a merger, consolidation or similar transaction.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control will not be 
deemed to occur (A) on account of the acquisition of securities of the Company by an investor, any affiliate thereof or any 
other Exchange Act Person that acquires the Company’s securities in a transaction or series of related transactions the 
primary purpose of which is to obtain financing for the Company through the issuance of equity securities, or (B) solely 
because the level of Ownership held by any Exchange Act Person (the “Subject Person”) exceeds the designated percentage 
threshold of the outstanding voting securities as a result of a repurchase or other acquisition of voting securities by the 
Company reducing the number of shares outstanding, provided that if a Change in Control would occur (but for the operation 
of this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of voting securities by the Company, and after such share acquisition, the 
Subject Person becomes the Owner of any additional voting securities that, assuming the repurchase or other acquisition 
had not occurred, increases the percentage of the then outstanding voting securities Owned by the Subject Person over the 
designated percentage threshold, then a Change in Control will be deemed to occur;
(ii) there is consummated a merger, consolidation or similar transaction involving (directly or indirectly) the 
Company and, immediately after the consummation of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction, the stockholders 
of the Company immediately prior thereto do not Own, directly or indirectly, either (A) outstanding voting securities 
representing more than 50% of the combined outstanding voting power of the surviving Entity in such merger, consolidation 
or similar transaction or (B) more than 50% of the combined outstanding voting power of the parent of the surviving Entity 
in such merger, consolidation or similar transaction, in each case in substantially the same proportions as their Ownership 
of the outstanding voting securities of the Company immediately prior to such transaction;
(iii) there is consummated a sale, lease, exclusive license or other disposition of all or substantially all of the 
consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, other than a sale, lease, license or other disposition of all or 
substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries to an Entity, more than 50% of the combined 
voting power of the voting securities of which are Owned by stockholders of the Company in substantially the same 
proportions as their Ownership of the outstanding voting securities of the Company immediately prior to such sale, lease, 
license or other disposition; or

--- Page 100 ---
A-15
(iv) individuals who, on the date this Plan is adopted by the Board, are members of the Board (the “Incumbent 
Board”) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the members of the Board; provided, however, that if the 
appointment or election (or nomination for election) of any new Board member was approved or recommended by a majority 
vote of the members of the Incumbent Board then still in office, such new member will, for purposes of this Plan, be 
considered as a member of the Incumbent Board. 
For purposes of determining voting power under the term Change in Control, voting power will be calculated by assuming 
the conversion of all equity securities convertible (immediately or at some future time) into shares entitled to vote, but not 
assuming the exercise of any warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase those shares.  In addition, (A) the term Change 
in Control will not include a sale of assets, merger or other transaction effected exclusively for the purpose of changing the 
domicile of the Company, and (B) the definition of Change in Control (or any analogous term) in an individual written agreement 
between the Company or any Affiliate and the Participant will supersede the foregoing definition with respect to Awards 
subject to such agreement; provided, however, that if no definition of Change in Control or any analogous term is set forth 
in such an individual written agreement, the foregoing definition will apply; provided, further, that no Change in Control will 
be deemed to occur upon announcement or commencement of a tender offer or upon a potential takeover or upon 
stockholder approval of a merger or other transaction, in each case without a requirement that the Change in Control actually 
occur.
If required for compliance with Section 409A of the Code, in no event will a Change in Control be deemed to have occurred 
if such transaction is not also a “change in the ownership or effective control of” the Company or “a change in the ownership 
of a substantial portion of the assets of” the Company as determined under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5) 
(without regard to any alternative definition thereunder).  The Board may, in its sole discretion and without a Participant’s 
consent, amend the definition of “Change in Control” to conform to the definition of “Change in Control” under Section 409A 
of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
(h) “Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including any applicable regulations and guidance 
thereunder.
(i) “Committee” means a committee of one (1) or more Directors to whom authority has been delegated by the Board 
in accordance with Section 2(c).
(j) “Common Stock” means the common stock of the Company.
(k) “Company” means NVIDIA Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
(l) “Consultant” means any person, including an advisor, who is (i) engaged by the Company or an Affiliate to render 
consulting or advisory services and is compensated for such services, or (ii) serving as a member of the board of directors 
of an Affiliate and is compensated for such services.  However, service solely as a Director, or payment of a fee for such 
service, will not cause a Director to be considered a “Consultant” for purposes of the Plan. 
(m) “Continuous Service” means that the Participant’s service with the Company or an Affiliate, whether as an Employee, 
Director or Consultant, is not interrupted or terminated.  A change in the capacity in which the Participant renders service 
to the Company or an Affiliate as an Employee, Consultant or Director or a change in the entity for which the Participant 
renders such service, provided that there is no interruption or termination of the Participant’s service with the Company or 
an Affiliate, will not terminate a Participant’s Continuous Service; provided, however, that if the Entity for which a Participant 
is rendering services ceases to qualify as an “Affiliate” as determined by the Board in its sole discretion, such Participant’s 
Continuous Service will be considered to have terminated on the date such Entity ceases to qualify as an Affiliate.  To the 
extent permitted by law, the Board or the chief executive officer of the Company, in that party’s sole discretion, may determine 
whether Continuous Service will be considered interrupted in the case of: (i) any leave of absence approved by the Board 
of the chief executive officer of the Company, including sick leave, military leave or any other personal leave; or (ii) transfers 
between the Company, an Affiliate, or their successors.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, and except as otherwise required 
by applicable law or as otherwise determined by the Committee, a leave of absence will be treated as Continuous Service 
for purposes of vesting in an Award only on those days on which the Participant is using Company-paid vacation time and 
floating holidays and for the first 90 days of leave during which the Participant is not being paid through such vacation time 
and floating holidays.  In addition, to the extent required for exemption from or compliance with Section 409A of the Code, 
the determination of whether there has been a termination of Continuous Service will be made, and such term will be 
construed, in a manner that is consistent with the definition of “separation from service” as defined under Treasury 
Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h) (without regard to any alternative definition thereunder). 
(n) “Corporate Transaction” means the occurrence, in a single transaction or in a series of related transactions, of any 
one or more of the following events:

--- Page 101 ---
A-16
(i) the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all, as determined by the Board in 
its sole discretion, of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries;
(ii) the consummation of a sale or other disposition of at least 50% of the outstanding securities of the Company, 
in the case of Awards granted on or after the date of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2012, and at least 90% of the 
outstanding securities of the Company, in the case of Awards granted prior to the date of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
in 2012;
(iii) the consummation of a merger, consolidation or similar transaction following which the Company is not 
the surviving corporation; or
(iv) the consummation of a merger, consolidation or similar transaction following which the Company is the 
surviving corporation but the shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately preceding the merger, consolidation or 
similar transaction are converted or exchanged by virtue of the merger, consolidation or similar transaction into other 
property, whether in the form of securities, cash or otherwise.
To the extent required for compliance with Section 409A of the Code, in no event will an event be deemed a Corporate 
Transaction if such transaction is not also a “change in the ownership or effective control of” the Company or “a change in 
the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of” the Company as determined under Treasury Regulation Section 
1.409A-3(i)(5) (without regard to any alternative definition thereunder).
(o) “Covered Employee” will have the meaning provided in Section 162(m)(3) of the Code and the regulations 
promulgated thereunder.  
(p) “Director” means a member of the Board.
(q) “Directors’ Plan” means the Company’s 1998 Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan.
(r) “Disability” means, with respect to a Participant,  the inability of such Participant to engage in any substantial gainful 
activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death 
or that has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, as provided in 
Section 22(e)(3) and 409A(a)(2)(c)(i) of the Code, and will be determined by the Board on the basis of such medical evidence 
as the Board deems warranted under the circumstances. 
(s) “Effective Date” means June 21, 2007, which was the date of the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the 
Company at which this Plan was approved by the Company’s stockholders.
(t) “Employee” means any person employed by the Company or an Affiliate.  However, service solely as a Director, or 
payment of a fee for such services, will not cause a Director to be considered an “Employee” for purposes of the Plan.
(u) “Entity” means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity.
(v) “Exchange Act” means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated 
thereunder.
(w) “Exchange Act Person” means any natural person, Entity or “group” (within the meaning of Section 13(d) or 14(d) 
of the Exchange Act), except that “Exchange Act Person” will not include (i) the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, 
(ii) any employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company or any trustee or other fiduciary holding 
securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, (iii) an underwriter temporarily 
holding securities pursuant to a registered public offering of such securities, (iv) an Entity Owned, directly or indirectly, by 
the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their Ownership of stock of the Company; or (v) 
any natural person, Entity or “group” (within the meaning of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act) that, as of the 
Effective Date as set forth in Section 11, is the Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing more 
than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the Company’s then outstanding securities.
(x) “Fair Market Value” means, as of any date, the value of the Common Stock determined as follows:
(i) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or traded on any established market, the 
Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock will be, unless otherwise determined by the Board, the closing sales price
for such stock as quoted on such exchange or market (or the exchange or market with the greatest volume of trading in 
the Common Stock) on the date of determination, as reported in a source the Board deems reliable. 
(ii) Unless otherwise provided by the Board, if there is no closing sales price for the Common Stock on the 
date of determination, then the Fair Market Value will be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such 
quotation exists.  

--- Page 102 ---
A-17
(iii) In the absence of such markets for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value will be determined by the 
Board in good faith and in a manner that complies with Sections 409A and 422 of the Code.
(y) “Full Value Award” means a Stock Award that is not an Option with respect to which the exercise or strike price is 
at least 100% of the Fair Market Value on the date of grant or a Stock Appreciation Right with respect to which the exercise 
or strike price is at least 100% of the Fair Market Value on the date of grant.
(z) “Incentive Stock Option” means an option that is intended to be, and qualifies as, an “incentive stock option” within 
the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
(aa) “Non-Employee Director” means a Director who either (i) is not a current employee or officer of the Company or an 
Affiliate, does not receive compensation, either directly or indirectly, from the Company or an Affiliate for services rendered 
as a consultant or in any capacity other than as a Director (except for an amount as to which disclosure would not be 
required under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act (“Regulation S-K”)), does not 
possess an interest in any other transaction for which disclosure would be required under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K, 
and is not engaged in a business relationship for which disclosure would be required pursuant to Item 404(b) of Regulation 
S-K; or (ii) is otherwise considered a “non-employee director” for purposes of Rule 16b-3.
(bb) “Nonstatutory Stock Option” means an option granted pursuant to Section 5 of the Plan that does not qualify as an 
Incentive Stock Option. 
(cc) “Officer” means a person who is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act 
and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(dd) “Option” means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option to purchase shares of Common Stock 
granted pursuant to the Plan.
(ee) “Option Agreement” means a written agreement between the Company and an Optionholder evidencing the terms 
and conditions of an Option grant.  Each Option Agreement will be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
(ff) “Optionholder” means a person to whom an Option is granted pursuant to the Plan or, if applicable, such other person 
who holds an outstanding Option.
(gg) “Other Stock Award” means an award based in whole or in part by reference to the Common Stock which is granted 
pursuant to the terms and conditions of Section 6(d).
(hh) “Other Stock Award Agreement” means a written agreement between the Company and a holder of an Other Stock 
Award evidencing the terms and conditions of an Other Stock Award grant.  Each Other Stock Award Agreement will be 
subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. 
(ii) “Outside Director” means a Director who either (i) is not a current employee of the Company or an “affiliated 
corporation” (within the meaning of Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 162(m) of the Code), is not a former 
employee of the Company or an “affiliated corporation” who receives compensation for prior services (other than benefits 
under a tax-qualified retirement plan) during the taxable year, has not been an officer of the Company or an “affiliated 
corporation,” and does not receive remuneration from the Company or an “affiliated corporation,” either directly or indirectly, 
in any capacity other than as a Director, or (ii) is otherwise considered an “outside director” for purposes of Section 162(m) 
of the Code.
(jj) “Own,” “Owned,” “Owner,” “Ownership” means a person or Entity will be deemed to “Own,” to have “Owned,” to be 
the “Owner” of, or to have acquired “Ownership” of securities if such person or Entity, directly or indirectly, through any 
contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has or shares voting power, which includes the power to 
vote or to direct the voting, with respect to such securities.
(kk) “Participant” means a person to whom an Award is granted pursuant to the Plan or, if applicable, such other person 
who holds an outstanding Stock Award.
(ll) “Performance Cash Award” means an award of cash granted pursuant to the terms and conditions of Section 6(c)
(ii).
(mm) “Performance Criteria” means the one or more criteria that the Committee (or, to the extent that an Award is not 
intended to qualify as “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Board) will select for 
purposes of establishing the Performance Goals for a Performance Period.  The Performance Criteria that will be used to 
establish such Performance Goals may be based on any one of, or combination of, the following: (1) earnings, including any 
of the following: gross profit, operating income, income before income tax, net income, and earnings per share, in each case 
with any one of or combination of the following exclusions or inclusions: (a) interest income, (b) interest expense, (c) other 
income that is categorized as non-operating income, (d) other expense that is categorized as non-operating expense, (e) 

--- Page 103 ---
A-18
income tax, (f) depreciation, and (g) amortization; (2) total stockholder return; (3) return on equity or average stockholder’s 
equity; (4) return on assets, investment, or capital employed; (5) stock price; (6) gross profit margin; (7) operating income 
margin; (8) cash flow from operating activities (including cash flow from operating activities per share); (9) free cash flow 
(including free cash flow per share); (10) change in cash and cash equivalents (or cash flow) (including change in cash and 
cash equivalents per share (or cash flow per share)); (11) sales or revenue targets; (12) increases in revenue or product 
revenue; (13) expenses and cost reduction goals; (14) improvement in or attainment of expense levels; (15) improvement 
in or attainment of working capital levels; (16) economic value added (or an equivalent metric); (17) market share; (18) share 
price performance; (19) debt reduction; (20) implementation or completion of projects or processes; (21) customer 
satisfaction; (22) stockholders’ equity; (23) capital expenditures; (24) debt levels; (25) workforce diversity; (26) growth of net 
income or operating income; (27) employee retention; (28) quality measures; and (29) to the extent that an Award is not 
intended to qualify as “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code, other measures of 
performance selected by the Board.  Partial achievement of the specified criteria may result in the payment or vesting 
corresponding to the degree of achievement as specified in the Stock Award Agreement or the written terms of a 
Performance Cash Award.  The Committee (or, to the extent that an Award is not intended to qualify as “performance-based 
compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Board) will, in its sole discretion, define the manner of calculating the 
Performance Criteria it selects to use for such Performance Period.
(nn) “Performance Goals” means, for a Performance Period, the one or more goals established by the Committee (or, 
to the extent that an Award is not intended to qualify as “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the 
Code, the Board) for the Performance Period based upon the Performance Criteria.  Performance Goals may be based on 
a Company-wide basis, with respect to one or more business units, divisions, Affiliates, or business segments, and in either 
absolute terms or relative to the performance of one or more comparable companies or the performance of one or more 
relevant indices.  The Committee (or, to the extent that an Award is not intended to qualify as “performance-based 
compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Board) will be authorized to appropriately make adjustments in the 
method of calculating the attainment of Performance Goals for a Performance Period as follows, provided that any such 
adjustments must be objectively determinable to the extent that the Award is intended to qualify as “performance-based 
compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code: (1) to exclude the effects of stock-based compensation (including any 
modification charges); (2) to exclude the portion of any legal settlement assigned as past infringement (i.e. the fair value 
associated with the portion of settlement that is non-recurring); (3) to exclude restructuring charges (including any costs 
associated with a reduction in force and/or shutting down of business operations, such as severance compensation and 
benefits and the cost to shut down operating sites/offices); (4) to exclude amortization expenses associated with intangible 
assets obtained through a business combination (acquisition or asset purchase); (5) to exclude other costs incurred in 
connection with acquisitions or divestitures (including potential acquisitions or divestitures) that are required to be expensed 
under generally accepted accounting principles (including any direct acquisition costs that are not associated with providing 
ongoing future benefit to the combined company and certain compensation costs associated with an acquisition, such as 
one-time compensation charges, longer-term retention incentives, and associated payroll tax charges); (6) to exclude any 
exchange rate effects; (7) to exclude the effects of changes to generally accepted accounting principles; (8) to exclude the 
effects of any statutory adjustments to corporate tax rates or changes in tax legislation; (9) to exclude the portion of any 
tax related settlements; (10)  to exclude the effects of any items of an unusual nature or of infrequency of occurrence; (11) 
to exclude the dilutive effects of acquisitions or joint ventures; (12) to exclude the effect of any change in the outstanding 
shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend or split, stock repurchase, reorganization, recapitalization, merger, 
consolidation, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares or other similar corporate change, or any distributions to common 
stockholders other than regular cash dividends; (13) to exclude the effects of the award of bonuses under the Company’s 
bonus plans; (14) to exclude any impairment of long-lived assets including goodwill, investments in non-affiliated entities 
and intangible asset impairment charges that are required to be recorded under generally accepted accounting principles; 
(15) to exclude other events that are significant but not related to ongoing business operations, such as large charitable 
donations; (16) to assume that any business divested by the Company achieved performance objectives at targeted levels 
during the balance of a Performance Period following such divestiture; (17) to include non-operational credits (i.e., situations 
when directly related amounts have not been previously charged to the Company’s results of operations); and (18) to the 
extent that an Award is not intended to qualify as “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code, 
to appropriately make any other adjustments selected by the Board.
(oo) “Performance Period” means the period of time selected by the Committee (or, to the extent that an Award is not 
intended to qualify as “performance-based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Board) over which the 
attainment of one or more Performance Goals will be measured for the purpose of determining a Participant’s right to and 
the payment of a Stock Award or a Performance Cash Award.  Performance Periods may be of varying and overlapping 
duration, at the sole discretion of the Committee (or, to the extent that an Award is not intended to qualify as “performance-
based compensation” under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Board).
(pp) “Performance Stock Award” means a Stock Award granted under the terms and conditions of Section 6(c)(i).

--- Page 104 ---
A-19
(qq) “Plan” means this NVIDIA Corporation Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan.
(rr) “Prior Plans” means the NVIDIA Corporation 1998 Equity Incentive Plan, the NVIDIA Corporation 1998 Non-Employee 
Directors’ Stock Option Plan, the NVIDIA Corporation 2000 Nonstatutory Equity Incentive Plan, and the PortalPlayer, Inc. 
2004 Stock Incentive Plan, each as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date.
(ss) “Restricted Stock Award” means an award of shares of Common Stock which is granted pursuant to the terms and 
conditions of Section 6(a).
(tt) “Restricted Stock Award Agreement” means a written agreement between the Company and a holder of a Restricted 
Stock Award evidencing the terms and conditions of a Restricted Stock Award grant.  Each Restricted Stock Award Agreement 
will be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
(uu) “Restricted Stock Unit Award” means a right to receive shares of Common Stock (or cash equivalent) which is 
granted pursuant to the terms and conditions of Section 6(b).
(vv) “Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement” means a written agreement between the Company and a holder of a 
Restricted Stock Unit Award evidencing the terms and conditions of a Restricted Stock Unit Award grant.  Each Restricted 
Stock Unit Award Agreement will be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. 
(ww) “Rule 16b-3” means Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act or any successor to Rule 16b-3, as in effect 
from time to time.
(xx) “Securities Act” means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
(yy) “Stock Appreciation Right” or “SAR” means a right to receive the appreciation on Common Stock that is granted 
pursuant to the terms and conditions of Section 5.
(zz) “Stock Appreciation Right Agreement” means a written agreement between the Company and a holder of a Stock 
Appreciation Right evidencing the terms and conditions of a Stock Appreciation Right grant.  Each Stock Appreciation Right 
Agreement will be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
(aaa) “Stock Award” means any right to receive Common Stock granted under the Plan, including an Option, a Restricted 
Stock Award, a Restricted Stock Unit Award, a Stock Appreciation Right, a Performance Stock Award, or any Other Stock 
Award.
(bbb) “Stock Award Agreement” means a written agreement between the Company and a Participant evidencing the 
terms and conditions of a Stock Award grant.  Each Stock Award Agreement will be subject to the terms and conditions of 
the Plan.
(ccc) “Subsidiary” means, with respect to the Company, (i) any corporation of which more than fifty percent (50%) of the 
outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors of such corporation 
(irrespective of whether, at the time, stock of any other class or classes of such corporation will have or might have voting 
power by reason of the happening of any contingency) is at the time, directly or indirectly, Owned by the Company, and (ii) 
any partnership, limited liability company or other entity in which the Company has a direct or indirect interest (whether in 
the form of voting or participation in profits or capital contribution) of more than fifty percent (50%).
(ddd) “Ten Percent Stockholder” means a person who Owns (or is deemed to Own pursuant to Section 424(d) of the 
Code) stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the 
Company or any Affiliate.

--- Page 105 ---
B-1
APPENDIX B
NVIDIA Corporation Amended and Restated 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Adopted by the Compensation Committee:  March 22, 2012
Approved by the Stockholders: May 17, 2012
Amended and Restated by the Compensation Committee:  April 9, 2014
Approved by the Stockholders:  May 23, 2014
Amended and Restated by the Compensation Committee: April 5, 2016
Approved by the Stockholders:  May 18, 2016
Amended and Restated by the Compensation Committee: December 11, 2017
Amended and Restated by the Compensation Committee: April 3, 2018
Approved by the Stockholders:  [May 16, 2018]
1. General; Purpose.
(a) The Plan is intended as the successor to and continuation of the NVIDIA Corporation 1998 Employee Stock Purchase 
Plan (the “1998 Plan”). From and after 12:01 a.m. Pacific Standard Time on the Effective Date, no additional rights to purchase 
shares of Common Stock will be granted under the 1998 Plan. All rights to purchase shares granted on or after 12:01 a.m. 
Pacific Standard Time on the Effective Date will be granted under this Plan. Any rights to purchase shares of Common Stock 
granted under the 1998 Plan will remain subject to the terms of the 1998 Plan and any offering document or other agreements 
or governing documents describing the terms and conditions of offerings made pursuant to the 1998 Plan. 
(i) Any shares of Common Stock that would otherwise remain available for future offerings under the 1998 
Plan as of 12:01 a.m. Pacific Standard Time on the Effective Date (the “1998 Plan's Available Reserve”) will cease to be 
available under the 1998 Plan at such time. Instead, that number of shares of Common Stock equal to the 1998 Plan's 
Available Reserve will be added to the Share Reserve (as further described in Section 3(a) below) and be then immediately 
available for grants hereunder, up to the maximum number set forth in Section 3(a) below.
(ii) In addition, from and after 12:01 a.m. Pacific Standard Time on the Effective Date, with respect to the 
aggregate number of shares subject, at such time, to outstanding grants under the 1998 Plan that would, but for the operation 
of this sentence, subsequently return to the share reserve of the 1998 Plan (such shares, the “Returning Shares”), such 
shares of Common Stock will not return to the share reserve of the 1998 Plan, and instead that number of shares of Common 
Stock equal to the Returning Shares will immediately be added to the Share Reserve as and when such a share becomes 
a Returning Share, up to a maximum number set forth in Section 3(a) below.
(b) The Plan provides a means by which Eligible Employees of the Company and certain Designated Companies may 
be given an opportunity to purchase shares of Common Stock.  The Plan permits the Company to grant a series of Purchase 
Rights to Eligible Employees.
(c) The Company, by means of the Plan, seeks to retain the services of such Employees, to secure and retain the 
services of new Employees and to provide incentives for such persons to exert maximum efforts for the success of the 
Company and its Related Corporations.
(d) This Plan includes two components: a 423 Component and a Non-423 Component.  It is the intention of the Company 
to have the 423 Component qualify as an Employee Stock Purchase Plan.  The provisions of the 423 Component, accordingly, 
will be construed in a manner that is consistent with the requirements of Section 423 of the Code.  In addition, this Plan 
authorizes the grant of Purchase Rights under the Non-423 Component that does not meet the requirements of an Employee 
Stock Purchase Plan because of deviations necessary or advisable to permit or facilitate participation in the Plan by 
Employees who are foreign nationals or employed or located outside of the United States while complying with applicable 
foreign laws; such Purchase Rights will be granted pursuant to rules, procedures or subplans adopted by the Board designed 
to achieve these objectives for Eligible Employees and the Company and its Related Corporations.  Except as otherwise 
provided herein or determined by the Board, the Non-423 Component will operate and be administered in the same manner 
as the 423 Component.  In addition, under the 423 Component of the Plan, the Company may make separate Offerings which 
vary in terms (although not inconsistent with the provisions in the Plan and not inconsistent with the requirements of an 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan) and the Company will designate which Designated Company is participating in each separate 
Offering. 
(e) If a Participant transfers employment from the Company or any Designated 423 Corporation participating in the 
423 Component to a Designated Non-423 Corporation participating in the Non-423 Component, he or she will immediately 
cease to participate in the 423 Component; however, any Contributions made for the Purchase Period in which such transfer 
occurs will be transferred to the Non-423 Component, and such Participant will immediately join the then current Offering 
under the Non-423 Component upon the same terms and conditions in effect for his or her participation in the Plan, except 

--- Page 106 ---
B-2
for such modifications as may be required by applicable law.  A Participant who transfers employment from a Designated 
Non-423 Corporation participating in the Non-423 Component to the Company or any Designated 423 Corporation 
participating in the 423 Component will remain a Participant in the Non-423 Component until the earlier of (i) the end of 
the current Offering Period under the Non-423 Component, or (ii) the Offering Date of the first Offering in which he or she 
participates following such transfer.
2. Administration.
(a) The Board will administer the Plan unless and until the Board delegates administration of the Plan to a Committee 
or Committees, as provided in Section 2(c).
(b) The Board will have the power, subject to, and within the limitations of, the express provisions of the Plan:
(i) To determine how and when Purchase Rights will be granted and the provisions of each Offering (which 
need not be identical), including which Designated 423 Corporations and Designated Non-423 Corporations will participate 
in the 423 Component or the Non-423 Component.
(ii) To designate from time to time which Related Corporations of the Company will be eligible to participate 
in the Plan as Designated 423 Corporations and Designated Non-423 Corporations and which Affiliates will be eligible to 
participate in the Plan as Designated Non-423 Corporations and also to designate which Designated Companies will 
participate in each separate Offering (to the extent the Company makes separate Offerings).
(iii) To construe and interpret the Plan and Purchase Rights, and to establish, amend and revoke rules and 
regulations for its administration.  The Board, in the exercise of this power, may correct any defect, omission or inconsistency 
in the Plan, in a manner and to the extent it deems necessary or expedient to make the Plan fully effective.
(iv) To settle all controversies regarding the Plan and Purchase Rights granted under the Plan.
(v) To suspend or terminate the Plan at any time as provided in Section 12.
(vi) To amend the Plan at any time as provided in Section 12.
(vii) Generally, to exercise such powers and to perform such acts as it deems necessary or expedient to promote 
the best interests of the Company and its Related Corporations and to carry out the intent that the 423 Component be treated 
as an Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
(viii) To adopt such procedures and sub-plans as are necessary or appropriate to permit or facilitate participation 
in the Plan by Employees who are foreign nationals or employed or located outside the United States.  Without limiting the 
generality of, but consistent with, the foregoing, the Board specifically is authorized to adopt rules, procedures and subplans, 
which, for purposes of the Non-423 Component, may be outside the scope of Section 423 of the Code, regarding, without 
limitation, eligibility to participate in the Plan, handling and making of Contributions, establishment of bank or trust accounts 
to hold Contributions, payment of interest, conversion of local currency, obligations to pay payroll tax, determination of 
beneficiary designation requirements, withholding procedures and handling of share issuances, which may vary according 
to local requirements.    
(c) The Board may delegate some or all of the administration of the Plan to a Committee or Committees.  If administration 
is delegated to a Committee, the Committee will have, in connection with the administration of the Plan, the powers 
theretofore possessed by the Board that have been delegated to the Committee, including the power to delegate to a 
subcommittee any of the administrative powers the Committee is authorized to exercise (and references in this Plan to the 
Board will thereafter be to the Committee or subcommittee), subject, however, to such resolutions, not inconsistent with 
the provisions of the Plan, as may be adopted from time to time by the Board.  The Board may retain the authority to 
concurrently administer the Plan with the Committee and may, at any time, revest in the Board some or all of the powers 
previously delegated.  Whether or not the Board has delegated administration of the Plan to a Committee, the Board will 
have the final power to determine all questions of policy and expediency that may arise in the administration of the Plan.
(d) All determinations, interpretations and constructions made by the Board in good faith will not be subject to review 
by any person and will be final, binding and conclusive on all persons.
3. Shares of Common Stock Subject to the Plan.
(a) Subject to the provisions of Section 11(a) relating to Capitalization Adjustments, the maximum aggregate number 
of shares of Common Stock that may be issued under the Plan will not exceed 91,432,333 shares of Common Stock (the 
“Share Reserve”), which number is the sum of (i) 13,500,000 shares that were approved at the Company’s 2018 Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders, (ii) 10,000,000 shares that were approved at the Company’s 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, 
(iii) 12,500,000 shares that were approved at the Company’s 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, (iv) 32,000,000 shares 
that were approved at the Company’s 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, (v) the number of shares subject to the 1998 

--- Page 107 ---
B-3
Plan's Available Reserve, in an amount not to exceed 8,432,333 shares, and (vi) the number of shares that are Returning 
Shares, as such shares become available from time to time, in an amount not to exceed 15,000,000 shares.
(b) If any Purchase Right granted under the Plan terminates without having been exercised in full, the shares of Common 
Stock not purchased under such Purchase Right will again become available for issuance under the Plan.  
(c) The stock purchasable under the Plan will be shares of authorized but unissued or reacquired Common Stock, 
including shares repurchased by the Company on the open market.  
4. Grant of Purchase Rights; Offering.
(a) The Board may from time to time grant or provide for the grant of Purchase Rights to Eligible Employees under an 
Offering on Offering Dates selected by the Board.  Each Offering will be in such form and will contain such terms and 
conditions as the Board will deem appropriate, and with respect to the 423 Component will comply with the requirement 
of Section 423(b)(5) of the Code that all Employees granted Purchase Rights will have the same rights and privileges.  The 
provisions of separate Offerings need not be identical, but each Offering will include (through incorporation of the provisions 
of this Plan by reference in the document comprising the Offering or otherwise) the period during which the Offering will 
be effective, which period will not exceed 27 months beginning with the Offering Date, and the substance of the provisions 
contained in Sections 5 through 8, inclusive.
(b) If a Participant has more than one Purchase Right outstanding under the Plan, unless he or she otherwise indicates 
in forms delivered to the Company: (i) each form will apply to all of his or her Purchase Rights under the Plan; and (ii) a 
Purchase Right with a lower exercise price (or an earlier-granted Purchase Right, if different Purchase Rights have identical 
exercise prices) will be exercised to the fullest possible extent before a Purchase Right with a higher exercise price (or a 
later-granted Purchase Right if different Purchase Rights have identical exercise prices) will be exercised.
(c) The Board will have the discretion to structure an Offering so that if the Fair Market Value of a share of Common 
Stock on the first Trading Day of a new Purchase Period within that Offering is less than or equal to a Participant’s Offering 
Date Price, then with respect to such Participant, that Offering will terminate immediately as of that first Trading Day and 
such Participant will be automatically enrolled in a new Offering beginning on that first Trading Day.
5. Eligibility.
(a) Purchase Rights may be granted only to Employees of the Company or, as the Board may designate in accordance 
with Section 2(b), to Employees of a Related Corporation or an Affiliate.  Except as provided in Section 5(b), an Employee 
will not be eligible to be granted Purchase Rights unless, on the Offering Date, the Employee has been in the employ of the 
Company, a Related Corporation or an Affiliate, as the case may be, for such continuous period preceding such Offering 
Date as the Board may require, but in no event will the required period of continuous employment be equal to or greater 
than two years.  In addition, the Board may (unless prohibited by law) provide that no Employee will be eligible to be granted 
Purchase Rights under the Plan unless, on the Offering Date, such Employee's customary employment with the Company, 
the Related Corporation or the Affiliate is more than 20 hours per week and more than five months per calendar year or 
such other criteria as the Board may determine consistent with Section 423 of the Code.
(b) The Board may provide that each person who, during the course of an Offering (or any specified period within an 
Offering), first becomes an Eligible Employee will, on or after the day on which such person becomes an Eligible Employee, 
be granted a Purchase Right under that Offering, which Purchase Right will thereafter be deemed to be a part of that Offering.  
Such Purchase Right will have the same characteristics as any Purchase Rights originally granted under that Offering, as 
described herein, except that:
(i) the date on which such Purchase Right is granted will be the “Offering Date” of such Purchase Right for 
all purposes;
(ii) the period of the Offering with respect to such Purchase Right will begin on its Offering Date and end 
coincident with the end of the original Offering; and
(iii) the Board may provide that if such person first becomes an Eligible Employee within a specified period of 
time before the end of the Offering, he or she will not be granted any Purchase Right under that Offering.
(c) No Employee will be eligible for the grant of any Purchase Rights if, immediately after any such Purchase Rights 
are granted, such Employee owns stock possessing five percent or more of the total combined voting power or value of all 
classes of stock of the Company or of any Related Corporation (unless otherwise required by law).  For purposes of this 
Section 5(c), the rules of Section 424(d) of the Code will apply in determining the stock ownership of any Employee, and 
stock which such Employee may purchase under all outstanding Purchase Rights and options will be treated as stock owned 
by such Employee.

--- Page 108 ---
B-4
(d) As specified by Section 423(b)(8) of the Code, an Eligible Employee may be granted Purchase Rights only if such 
Purchase Rights, together with any other rights granted under all Employee Stock Purchase Plans of the Company and any 
Related Corporations, do not permit such Eligible Employee's rights to purchase stock of the Company or any Related 
Corporation to accrue at a rate which exceeds $25,000 of Fair Market Value of such stock (determined at the time such 
rights are granted, and which, with respect to the Plan, will be determined as of their respective Offering Dates) for each 
calendar year in which such rights are outstanding at any time.
(e) Officers of the Company and any Designated Company, if they are otherwise Eligible Employees, will be eligible to 
participate in Offerings under the Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may (unless prohibited by law) provide 
in an Offering that Employees who are highly compensated Employees within the meaning of Section 423(b)(4)(D) of the 
Code will not be eligible to participate.
6. Purchase Rights; Purchase Price.
(a) On each Offering Date, each Eligible Employee will be granted a Purchase Right under the applicable Offering to 
purchase up to that number of shares of Common Stock purchasable either with a percentage or with a maximum dollar 
amount, as designated by the Board but in either case not exceeding 15%, of such Employee's eligible earnings (as defined 
by the Board in each Offering) during the period that begins on the Offering Date (or such other date as the Board determines 
for a particular Offering) and ends on the date stated in the Offering, which date will be no later than the end of the Offering.
(b) The Board will establish one or more Purchase Dates during an Offering on which Purchase Rights granted for 
that Offering will be exercised and shares of Common Stock will be purchased in accordance with such Offering.
(c) In connection with each Offering made under the Plan, the Board may specify (i) a maximum number of shares of 
Common Stock that may be purchased by any Participant on any Purchase Date during such Offering, (ii) a maximum 
aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be purchased by all Participants pursuant to such Offering, and/
or (iii) a maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be purchased by all Participants on any Purchase 
Date under the Offering.  If the aggregate purchase of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of Purchase Rights 
granted under the Offering would exceed any such maximum aggregate number, then, in the absence of any Board action 
otherwise, a pro rata (based on each Participant's accumulated Contributions) allocation of the shares of Common Stock 
available will be made in as nearly a uniform manner as will be practicable and equitable.
(d) The purchase price of each share of Common Stock acquired pursuant to a Participant’s Purchase Right will be 
not less than the lesser of:
(i) an amount equal to 85% of such Participant’s Offering Date Price; or
(ii) an amount equal to 85% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the applicable Purchase 
Date.
7. Participation; Withdrawal; Termination.
(a) An Eligible Employee may elect to authorize payroll deductions as the means of making Contributions by completing 
and delivering to the Company, within the time specified in the Offering, an enrollment form provided by the Company. The 
enrollment form will specify the amount of Contributions not to exceed the maximum amount specified by the Board. Each 
Participant's Contributions will be credited to a bookkeeping account for such Participant under the Plan and will be deposited 
with the general funds of the Company except where applicable law requires that Contributions be deposited with a third 
party or otherwise segregated. If permitted in the Offering, a Participant may reduce (including to zero) or increase his or 
her Contributions.  If required under applicable law or if specifically provided in the Offering, in addition to or instead of 
making Contributions by payroll deductions, a Participant may make Contributions through the payment by cash or check 
or wire transfer prior to a Purchase Date, in the manner directed by the Company.
(b) During an Offering, a Participant may cease making Contributions and withdraw from the Offering by delivering to 
the Company a withdrawal form provided by the Company.  The Company may impose a deadline before a Purchase Date 
for withdrawing.  Upon such withdrawal, such Participant's Purchase Right in that Offering will immediately terminate and 
the Company will distribute to such Participant all of his or her accumulated but unused Contributions.  A Participant's 
withdrawal from that Offering will have no effect upon his or her eligibility to participate in any other Offerings under the 
Plan, but the Participant will be required to deliver a new enrollment form to participate in future Offerings.
(c) Unless otherwise required by applicable law, Purchase Rights granted pursuant to any Offering under the Plan will 
terminate immediately if the Participant either (i) is no longer an Employee for any reason or for no reason or (ii) is otherwise 
no longer eligible to participate. The Company will distribute to such individual all of his or her accumulated but unused 
Contributions.

--- Page 109 ---
B-5
(d) During a Participant's lifetime, Purchase Rights will be exercisable only by such Participant.  Purchase Rights are 
not transferable by a Participant, except by will, by the laws of descent and distribution, or, if permitted by the Company, by 
a beneficiary designation as described in Section 10.  
(e) The Company has no obligation to pay interest on Contributions, unless otherwise required by applicable law.
8. Exercise of Purchase Rights.
(a) On each Purchase Date, each Participant's accumulated Contributions will be applied to the purchase of shares of 
Common Stock, up to the maximum number of shares of Common Stock permitted by the Plan and the applicable Offering, 
at the purchase price specified in the Offering.  No fractional shares will be issued unless specifically provided for in the 
Offering.
(b) If any amount of accumulated Contributions remains in a Participant's account after the purchase of shares of 
Common Stock on the final Purchase Date of an Offering and such remaining amount is less than the amount required to 
purchase one share of Common Stock, then such remaining amount will be held in such Participant's account for the 
purchase of shares of Common Stock under the next Offering under the Plan, unless such Participant withdraws from or 
is not eligible to participate in such Offering, in which case such amount will be distributed to such Participant after the 
final Purchase Date, without interest (unless otherwise required by applicable law).  If the amount of Contributions remaining 
in a Participant's account after the purchase of shares of Common Stock on the final Purchase Date of an Offering is at 
least equal to the amount required to purchase one whole share of Common Stock, then such remaining amount will not 
roll over to the next Offering and will instead be distributed in full to such Participant after the final Purchase Date, without 
interest (unless otherwise required by applicable law).
(c) No Purchase Rights may be exercised to any extent unless the shares of Common Stock to be issued upon such 
exercise under the Plan are covered by an effective registration statement pursuant to the Securities Act and the Plan is 
in material compliance with all applicable laws.  If on a Purchase Date the shares of Common Stock are not so registered 
or the Plan is not in such compliance, no Purchase Rights will be exercised on such Purchase Date, and the Purchase Date 
will be delayed until the shares of Common Stock are subject to such an effective registration statement and the Plan is in 
material compliance, except that the Purchase Date will in no event be more than 27 months from the Offering Date.  If, on 
the Purchase Date, as delayed to the maximum extent permissible, the shares of Common Stock are not registered and the 
Plan is not in material compliance with all applicable laws, no Purchase Rights will be exercised and all accumulated but 
unused Contributions will be distributed to the Participants without interest (unless otherwise required under applicable 
local law).
9. Covenants of the Company.
The Company will seek to obtain from each federal, state, foreign or other regulatory commission or agency having 
jurisdiction over the Plan such authority as may be required to grant Purchase Rights and issue and sell shares of Common 
Stock thereunder unless doing so would be an unreasonable cost to the Company compared to the potential benefit to 
Eligible Employees which the Company shall determine at its discretion.  If, after commercially reasonable efforts, the 
Company is unable to obtain the authority that counsel for the Company deems necessary for the grant of Purchase Rights 
or the lawful issuance and sale of Common Stock under the Plan, and at a commercially reasonable cost, the Company will 
be relieved from any liability for failure to grant Purchase Rights and/or to issue and sell Common Stock upon exercise of 
such Purchase Rights.
10. Designation of Beneficiary.
(a) The Company may, but is not obligated to, permit a Participant to submit a form designating a beneficiary who will 
receive any shares of Common Stock and/or Contributions from the Participant's account under the Plan if the Participant 
dies before such shares and/or Contributions are delivered to the Participant.  The Company may, but is not obligated to, 
permit the Participant to change such designation of beneficiary. Any such designation and/or change must be on a form 
approved by the Company.
(b)   If a Participant dies, and in the absence of a valid beneficiary designation, the Company will deliver any shares of 
Common Stock and/or Contributions to the executor or administrator of the estate of the Participant.  If no executor or 
administrator has been appointed (to the knowledge of the Company), the Company, in its sole discretion, may deliver such 
shares of Common Stock and/or Contributions to the Participant's spouse, dependents or relatives, or if no spouse, dependent 
or relative is known to the Company, then to such other person as the Company may designate.
11. Adjustments upon Changes in Common Stock; Corporate Transactions.
(a) On a Capitalization Adjustment, the Board will appropriately and proportionately adjust: (i) the class(es) and 
maximum number of securities subject to the Plan pursuant to Section 3(a); (ii) the class(es) and number of securities 

--- Page 110 ---
B-6
subject to, and the purchase price applicable to outstanding Offerings and Purchase Rights; and (iii) the class(es) and number 
of securities that are the subject of the purchase limits under each ongoing Offering.  The Board will make these adjustments, 
and its determination will be final, binding and conclusive. 
(b) On a Corporate Transaction, then: (i) any surviving corporation or acquiring corporation (or the surviving or acquiring 
corporation's parent company) may assume or continue outstanding Purchase Rights or may substitute similar rights 
(including a right to acquire the same consideration paid to the stockholders in the Corporate Transaction) for outstanding 
Purchase Rights; or (ii) if any surviving or acquiring corporation (or its parent company) does not assume or continue such 
Purchase Rights or does not substitute similar rights for such Purchase Rights, then the Participants' accumulated 
Contributions will be used to purchase shares of Common Stock within ten business days prior to the Corporate Transaction 
under the outstanding Purchase Rights, and the Purchase Rights will terminate immediately after such purchase.
12. Amendment, Termination or Suspension of the Plan.
(a) The Board may amend the Plan at any time in any respect the Board deems necessary or advisable.  However, 
except as provided in Section 11(a) relating to Capitalization Adjustments, stockholder approval will be required for any 
amendment of the Plan for which stockholder approval is required by applicable law or listing requirements, including any 
amendment that either (i) materially increases the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the 
Plan, (ii) materially expands the class of individuals eligible to become Participants and receive Purchase Rights, (iii) 
materially increases the benefits accruing to Participants under the Plan or materially reduces the price at which shares 
of Common Stock may be purchased under the Plan, (iv) materially extends the term of the Plan, or (v) expands the types 
of awards available for issuance under the Plan, but in each of (i) through (v) above only to the extent stockholder approval 
is required by applicable law or listing requirements.
(b) The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time.  No Purchase Rights may be granted under the Plan 
while the Plan is suspended or after it is terminated.
(c) Any benefits, privileges, entitlements and obligations under any outstanding Purchase Rights granted before an 
amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan will not be materially impaired by any such amendment, suspension or 
termination except (i) with the consent of the person to whom such Purchase Rights were granted, (ii) as necessary to 
comply with any laws, listing requirements, or governmental regulations (including, without limitation, the provisions of 
Section 423 of the Code and the regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder relating to Employee Stock 
Purchase Plans) including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued or amended after 
the Effective Date, or (iii) as necessary to obtain or maintain favorable tax, listing, or regulatory treatment.  To be clear, the 
Board may amend outstanding Purchase Rights without a Participant's consent if such amendment is necessary to ensure 
that the Purchase Right and/or the Plan comply with the requirements of Section 423 of the Code.
13. Code Section 409A; Tax Qualification.
(a) Purchase Rights granted under the 423 Component are intended to be exempt from the application of Section 409A 
of the Code under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(5)(ii).  Purchase Rights granted under the Non-423 Component 
to U.S. taxpayers are intended to be exempt from the application of Section 409A of the Code under the short-term deferral 
exception and any ambiguities will be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent.  Subject to Section 13(b) 
hereof, Purchase Rights granted to U.S. taxpayers under the Non-423 Component will be subject to such terms and conditions 
that will permit such Purchase Rights to satisfy the requirements of the short-term deferral exception available under 
Section 409A of the Code, including the requirement that the shares subject to a Purchase Right be delivered within the 
short-term deferral period.  Subject to Section 13(b) hereof, in the case of a Participant who would otherwise be subject to 
Section 409A of the Code, to the extent the Board determines that a Purchase Right or the exercise, payment, settlement 
or deferral thereof is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Purchase Right will be granted, exercised, paid, settled or 
deferred in a manner that will comply with Section 409A of the Code, including U.S. Department of Treasury regulations 
and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that 
may be issued after the adoption of the Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company will have no liability to a Participant 
or any other party if the Purchase Right that is intended to be exempt from or compliant with Section 409A of the Code is 
not so exempt or compliant or for any action taken by the Board with respect thereto.
(b) Although the Company may endeavor to (i) qualify a Purchase Right for favorable tax treatment under the laws of 
the United States or jurisdictions outside of the United States or (ii) avoid adverse tax treatment (e.g., under Section 409A 
of the Code), the Company makes no representation to that effect and expressly disavows any covenant to maintain favorable 
or avoid unfavorable tax treatment, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, including Section 13(a) hereof.  
The Company will be unconstrained in its corporate activities without regard to the potential negative tax impact on 
Participants under the Plan.

--- Page 111 ---
B-7
14. Effective Date of Plan.
The Plan will become effective on the Effective Date.  No Purchase Rights will be exercised unless and until the Plan 
has been approved by the stockholders of the Company, which approval must be within 12 months before or after the date 
the Plan is adopted (or if required under Section 12(a) above, materially amended) by the Board. 
15. Miscellaneous Provisions.
(a) Proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock pursuant to Purchase Rights will constitute general funds of 
the Company.
(b) A Participant will not be deemed to be the holder of, or to have any of the rights of a holder with respect to, shares 
of Common Stock subject to Purchase Rights unless and until the Participant's shares of Common Stock acquired upon 
exercise of Purchase Rights are recorded in the books of the Company (or its transfer agent).
(c) The Plan and Offering do not constitute an employment contract.  Nothing in the Plan or in the Offering will in any 
way alter the at will nature of a Participant's employment, if applicable, or be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any 
obligation on the part of any Participant to continue in the employ of the Company or a Related Corporation or an Affiliate, 
or on the part of the Company or a Related Corporation or an Affiliate to continue the employment of a Participant.
(d) The provisions of the Plan will be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to that state's 
conflicts of laws rules.
(e) If any particular provision of the Plan is found to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable, such provision will not 
affect the other provisions of the Plan, but the Plan will be construed in all respects as if such invalid provision were omitted.
16. Definitions.
As used in the Plan, the following definitions will apply to the capitalized terms indicated below:
(a) “423 Component” means the part of the Plan, which excludes the Non-423 Component, pursuant to which Purchase 
Rights that satisfy the requirements for Employee Stock Purchase Plans may be granted to Eligible Employees.
(b) “Affiliate” means any branch or representative office of a Related Corporation, as determined by the Board, whether 
now or hereafter existing. 
(c)  “Board” means the Board of Directors of the Company.
(d)  “Capitalization Adjustment” means any change that is made in, or other events that occur with respect to, the 
Common Stock subject to the Plan or subject to any Purchase Right after the Effective Date without the receipt of 
consideration by the Company through merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, reincorporation, stock 
dividend, dividend in property other than cash, large nonrecurring cash dividend, stock split, liquidating dividend, combination 
of shares, exchange of shares, change in corporate structure or other similar equity restructuring transaction, as that term 
is used in Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718 (or any successor thereto).  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the conversion of any convertible securities of the Company will not be treated as a 
Capitalization Adjustment.
(e) “Code” means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(f) “Committee” means a committee of one or more members of the Board to whom authority has been delegated by 
the Board.
(g) “Common Stock” means the common stock of the Company.
(h) “Company” means NVIDIA Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
(i) “Contributions” means the payroll deductions and other additional payments specifically provided for in the Offering 
that a Participant contributes to fund the exercise of a Purchase Right. A Participant may make additional payments into 
his or her account if specifically provided for in the Offering, and then only if the Participant has not already had the maximum 
permitted amount withheld during the Offering through payroll deductions.
(j) “Corporate Transaction” means the occurrence, in a single transaction or in a series of related transactions, of any 
one or more of the following events:
(i) the consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all, as determined by the Board in its 
sole discretion, of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries;
(ii) the consummation of a sale or other disposition of at least 50% of the outstanding securities of the Company;

--- Page 112 ---
B-8
(iii) the consummation of a merger, consolidation or similar transaction following which the Company is not the 
surviving corporation; or
(iv) the consummation of a merger, consolidation or similar transaction following which the Company is the 
surviving corporation but the shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately preceding the merger, 
consolidation or similar transaction are converted or exchanged by virtue of the merger, consolidation or 
similar transaction into other property, whether in the form of securities, cash or otherwise.
To the extent required for compliance with Section 409A of the Code, in no event will an event be deemed a Corporate 
Transaction if such transaction is not also a “change in the ownership or effective control of” the Company or “a change in 
the ownership of a substantial portion of the asset of” the Company as determined under Treasury Regulation Section 
1.409A-3(i)(5) (without regard to any alternative definition thereunder).
(k) “Designated Non-423 Corporation” means any Related Corporation or Affiliate selected by the Board as eligible to 
participate in the Non-423 Component.  
(l) “Designated Company” means a Designated Non-423 Corporation or Designated 423 Corporation.
(m) “Designated 423 Corporation” means any Related Corporation selected by the Board as eligible to participate in the 
423 Component.    
(n) “Director” means a member of the Board.
(o) “Effective Date” means the effective date of this Plan document, which is the date of the 2012 Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders of the Company provided this Plan is approved by the Company's stockholders at such meeting.
(p) “Eligible Employee” means an Employee who meets the requirements set forth in the document(s) governing the 
Offering for eligibility to participate in the Offering, provided that such Employee also meets the requirements for eligibility 
to participate set forth in the Plan.
(q) “Employee” means any person, including an Officer or Director, who is treated as an employee in the records of the 
Company or a Related Corporation (including an Affiliate).  However, service solely as a Director, or payment of a fee for 
such services, will not cause a Director to be considered an “Employee” for purposes of the Plan.  
(r) “Employee Stock Purchase Plan” means a plan that grants Purchase Rights intended to be options issued under 
an “employee stock purchase plan,” as that term is defined in Section 423(b) of the Code.
(s) “Exchange Act” means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(t) “Fair Market Value” means, as of any date, the value of the Common Stock determined as follows:
(i) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or traded on any established market, the 
Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock will be the closing sales price for such stock as quoted on 
such exchange or market (or the exchange or market with the greatest volume of trading in the Common 
Stock) on the date of determination, as reported in such source as the Board deems reliable.  Unless 
otherwise provided by the Board, if there is no closing sales price for the Common Stock on the date of 
determination, then the Fair Market Value will be the closing sales price on the last preceding date for which 
such quotation exists.
(ii) In the absence of such markets for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value will be determined by the Board 
in good faith in compliance with applicable laws.
(u)   “Non-423 Component” means the part of the Plan, which excludes the 423 Component, pursuant to which Purchase 
Rights that are not intended to satisfy the requirements for Employee Stock Purchase Plans may be granted to Eligible 
Employees.
(v) “Offering” means the grant to Eligible Employees of Purchase Rights, with the exercise of those Purchase Rights 
automatically occurring at the end of one or more Purchase Periods. The terms and conditions of an Offering will generally 
be set forth in the “Offering Document” approved by the Board for that Offering.
(w) “Offering Date” means a date selected by the Board for an Offering to commence.
(x) “Offering Date Price” means, with respect to each Participant participating in an Offering, the Fair Market Value of 
a share of Common Stock on the Offering Date applicable to such Participant (i.e., the date on which such Participant is 
granted a Purchase Right for such Offering).
(y) “Officer” means a person who is an officer of the Company or a Related Corporation within the meaning of Section 
16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

--- Page 113 ---
B-9
(z) “Participant” means an Eligible Employee who holds an outstanding Purchase Right.
(aa) “Plan” means this NVIDIA Corporation Amended and Restated 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, including both 
the 423 and Non-423 Components, as amended from time to time.
(bb) “Purchase Date” means one or more dates during an Offering selected by the Board on which Purchase Rights will 
be exercised and on which purchases of shares of Common Stock will be carried out in accordance with such Offering.
(cc) “Purchase Period” means a period of time specified within an Offering, generally beginning on the Offering Date or 
on the first Trading Day following a Purchase Date, and ending on a Purchase Date.  An Offering may consist of one or more 
Purchase Periods.
(dd) “Purchase Right” means an option to purchase shares of Common Stock granted pursuant to the Plan.
(ee) “Related Corporation” means any “parent corporation” or “subsidiary corporation” of the Company whether now or 
subsequently established, as those terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and 424(f), respectively, of the Code.
(ff) “Securities Act” means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
(gg) “Trading Day” means any day on which the exchange(s) or market(s) on which shares of Common Stock are listed, 
including but not limited to the NYSE, Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Nasdaq Global Market, the Nasdaq Capital Market 
or any successors thereto, is open for trading.

--- Page 114 ---
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
__________________________________________________________________________________________
FORM 10-K
[x] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018
OR
[_] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Commission file number: 0-23985
  
NVIDIA CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 94-3177549
(State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. Employer
Incorporation or Organization) Identification No.)
2788 San Tomas Expressway
Santa Clara, California 95051
(408) 486-2000
(Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including area code, of principal executive offices)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share The NASDAQ Global Select Market
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes 
  No 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes 
  No 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the 
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 
days. Yes 
  No 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be 
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant 
was required to submit and post such files). Yes 
  No 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be 
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to 
this Form 10-K. 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth 
company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer”, “accelerated filer”, “smaller reporting company”, and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer 
 Accelerated filer 
   Non-accelerated filer 
    Smaller reporting company 
 Emerging growth company 
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial 
accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes 
  No 
  
The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of July 28, 2017 was approximately $94.31 billion (based on the closing sales price 
of the registrant's common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market on July 28, 2017). This calculation excludes 26 million shares held by directors and 
executive officers of the registrant. This calculation does not exclude shares held by such organizations whose ownership exceeds 5% of the registrant's outstanding common 
stock that have represented to the registrant that they are registered investment advisers or investment companies registered under section 8 of the Investment Company 
Act of 1940.
The number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 26, 2018 was 605 million.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for its 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 
14A not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K are incorporated by reference into Part III, Items 10-14 of this Annual 
Report on Form 10-K.

--- Page 115 ---
2
NVIDIA CORPORATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
    Page
   
PART I  
 
Item 1.
 
Business
 
Item 1A.
 
Risk Factors
 
Item 1B.
 
Unresolved Staff Comments
 
Item 2.
 
Properties
 
Item 3.
 
Legal Proceedings
 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
   
PART II  
 
Item 5.
 
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases 
of Equity Securities
 
Item 6.
 
Selected Financial Data
 
Item 7.
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
Item 9.
 
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
Item 9A.
 
Controls and Procedures
 
Item 9B.
 
Other Information
   
PART III  
 
Item 10.
 
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 
Item 11.
 
Executive Compensation
 
Item 12.
 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder 
Matters
 
Item 13.
 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
 
Item 14.
 
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
   
PART IV  
 
Item 15.
 
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
 
Signatures  
4
12
19
19
19
19
20
22
23
34
35
35
35
36
36
36
37
37
37
38
81

--- Page 116 ---
3
WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION
Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor 
relations website, press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. We also use the following social 
media channels as a means of disclosing information about the company, our products, our planned financial and other 
announcements and attendance at upcoming investor and industry conferences, and other matters and for complying with 
our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD:
NVIDIA Twitter Account (https://twitter.com/NVIDIA)
NVIDIA Company Blog (http://blogs.nvidia.com) 
NVIDIA Facebook Page (https://www.facebook.com/NVIDIA) 
NVIDIA LinkedIn Page (http://www.linkedin.com/company/nvidia?trk=hb_tab_compy_id_3608)
NVIDIA Instagram Page (https://www.instagram.com/nvidia/)
NVIDIA Flipboard Page (https://flipboard.com/@NVIDIACorp)
In addition, investors and others can view NVIDIA videos on YouTube.
The information we post through these social media channels may be deemed material. Accordingly, investors should 
monitor these accounts and the blog, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls 
and webcasts. This list may be updated from time to time. The information we post through these channels is not a part of 
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These channels may be updated from time to time on NVIDIA's investor relations website.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act 
of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” 
created by those sections. Forward-looking statements are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on 
information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such 
as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “goal,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “predict,” “potential” 
and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, 
uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance, time frames or achievements to be materially 
different from any future results, performance, time frames or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking 
statements. We discuss many of these risks, uncertainties and other factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in greater detail 
under the heading “Risk Factors.” Given these risks, uncertainties and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on 
these forward-looking statements. Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of 
the date of this filing. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K completely and with the understanding that our actual 
future results may be materially different from what we expect. We hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these 
cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, 
or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even 
if new information becomes available in the future.
All references to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is 
made clear that the term means only the parent company.
© 2018 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, Ansel, GeForce, Quadro, Tegra, Tesla, CUDA, GeForce 
NOW, Jetson, NVIDIA DesignWorks, NVIDIA DGX, NVIDIA DRIVE, NVIDIA GameWorks, NVIDIA GRID, NVIDIA Holodeck, NVIDIA SHIELD, 
NVIDIA VRWorks, NVLink, OptiX, Pascal, ShadowPlay and TensorRT are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA 
Corporation in the United States and other countries. MAXQ® is the registered trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. Other 
company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated.

--- Page 117 ---
4
PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Our Company
Starting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the graphics processing unit, or GPU, to solve some of the most 
complex problems in computer science. We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of artificial 
intelligence, or AI. Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has 
evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, or VR, high performance computing, or HPC, and 
AI. 
The GPU was initially used to simulate human imagination, enabling the virtual worlds of video games and films. Today, it 
also simulates human intelligence, enabling a deeper understanding of the physical world. Its parallel processing 
capabilities, supported by up to thousands of computing cores, are essential to running deep learning algorithms. This form 
of AI, in which software writes itself by learning from data, can serve as the brain of computers, robots and self-driving 
cars that can perceive and understand the world. GPU-powered deep learning is being rapidly adopted by thousands of 
enterprises to deliver services and features that would have been impossible with traditional coding.
NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware, system software, programmable algorithms, libraries, systems, 
and services to create unique value for the markets we serve. While the requirements of these end markets are diverse, 
we address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs and Compute Unified Device Architecture, or 
CUDA, as the fundamental building blocks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to support several multi-
billion dollar end markets with the same underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either 
internally or by third party developers and partners. The large and growing number of developers for each of our platforms 
strengthens our ecosystem and increases the value of our platform to our customers. 
Innovation is at our core. We have invested over $15 billion in research and development since our inception, yielding 
inventions that are essential to modern computing. Our invention of the GPU in 1999 defined modern computer graphics 
and established NVIDIA as the leader in visual computing. With our introduction of the CUDA programming model in 2006, 
we opened the parallel processing capabilities of the GPU for general purpose computing. This approach significantly 
accelerates the performance of the most demanding applications in HPC in fields such as aerospace, bio-science research, 
mechanical and fluid simulations, and energy exploration. Today, GPUs power the fastest supercomputers across the world. 
In addition, the massively parallel compute architecture of our GPUs and associated software have proven to be well suited 
for deep learning, an approach we believe will power the era of AI. As the laws of physics have begun to slow down Moore’s 
Law, we continue to deliver GPU performance improvements ahead of Moore’s Law, giving the industry a path forward.
Gamers choose NVIDIA GPUs to enjoy immersive, increasingly cinematic virtual worlds. GPUs also help underpin the world’s 
fastest growing spectator sport, eSports, which attracts hundreds of millions of viewers to watch top-quality gaming. More 
than 100 million people participate in MOBA - multiplayer online battle area - games, which are powered by GPUs.
Researchers use our GPUs to accelerate a wide range of important applications, from simulating viruses to exploring the 
origins of the universe. With support for more than 500 applications - including the top 15 HPC applications - NVIDIA GPUs 
enable some of the most promising areas of discovery, from weather prediction to materials science and from wind tunnel 
simulation to genomics. In 2017, NVIDIA’s GPU computing supported the Nobel Prize-winning discoveries in physics and 
chemistry.
The world’s leading cloud service providers use our GPUs to enable, accelerate or enrich the services they deliver to billions 
of end-users, including search, social networking, online shopping, live video, translation, AI assistants, navigation, and 
cloud computing. 
A rapidly growing number of enterprises and startups use our GPUs to facilitate deep learning that meets, and in several 
cases surpasses, human perception, in fields ranging from radiology to precision agriculture. For example, the transportation 
industry is turning to our GPUs and AI to enable autonomous vehicles, or AVs, with more than 320 companies and 
organizations working with NVIDIA’s DRIVE platform. 
Professional designers use our GPUs to create visual effects in movies and design products ranging from soft drink bottles 
to commercial aircraft.
While our GPU and CUDA architecture is unified, our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce 
for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based 
visual computing users. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-

--- Page 118 ---
5
core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming 
and entertainment devices. 
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware 
in April 1998. 
Our Businesses
Our two reportable segments - GPU and Tegra Processor - are based on a single underlying architecture. 
GPU · GeForce for PC gaming and mainstream PCs
· GeForce NOW for cloud-based game-streaming service
· Quadro for design professionals working in computer-aided design, video editing, special effects, 
and other creative applications
· Tesla for AI utilizing deep learning and accelerated computing, leveraging the parallel computing 
capabilities of GPUs for general purpose computing
· GRID to provide the power of NVIDIA graphics through the cloud and datacenters
· DGX for AI scientists, researchers and developers 
· Cryptocurrency-specific GPUs
Tegra Processor · Tegra processors are primarily designed to enable branded platforms - DRIVE and SHIELD 
· DRIVE automotive supercomputers and software stacks that provide self-driving capabilities
· SHIELD devices and services designed to harness the power of mobile-cloud to revolutionize home 
entertainment, AI and gaming
· Jetson TX 2 is a power-efficient AI computing platform for embedded use
Our Markets
We specialize in markets in which GPU-based visual computing and accelerated computing platforms can provide 
tremendous throughput for applications. These platforms incorporate processors, systems software, programmable 
algorithms, systems, and services to deliver value that is unique in the marketplace.  From our proprietary processors, we 
have created platforms that address four large markets where our expertise is critical: Gaming, Professional Visualization, 
Datacenter, and Automotive.
Gaming
Computer gaming is the largest entertainment industry. Many factors propel computer gaming’s growth, including new 
high production value games and franchises, the rise of competitive online gaming, eSports, and the rise of virtual and 
augmented reality.
Our GPUs enhance the gaming experience by improving the visual quality of graphics, increasing the frame rate for smoother 
gameplay and improving realism by incorporating the behavior of light and physical objects. These can be enjoyed 
independently or together to extend the gaming experience across platforms.
Our gaming platforms utilize sophisticated 3D software and algorithms, including our GameWorks libraries that provide 
special effects for games. These enable us to deliver realism and immersion, even when playing games remotely from the 
cloud. We further enhance gaming with GeForce Experience, our gaming application that optimizes the PC user’s settings 
for each title and enables players to record and share gameplay. It has been downloaded by more than 90 million users.
To enable VR, we provide developers with a suite of software libraries called VRWorks. VRWorks allows developers to create 
fully immersive experiences by enabling physically realistic visuals, sound, touch interactions, and simulated environments.  
VR requires advanced high-performance GPUs as the engine to simulate complete immersion.
Our products for the gaming market include GeForce GTX GPUs for PC gaming, SHIELD devices for gaming and streaming, 
GeForce NOW for cloud-based gaming, as well as platforms and development services for specialized console gaming 
devices.

--- Page 119 ---
6
Professional Visualization
We serve the Professional Visualization market by working closely with independent software vendors to optimize their 
offerings for NVIDIA GPUs. Our GPU computing solutions enhance productivity and introduce new capabilities for critical 
parts of the workflow for such major industries as automotive, media and entertainment, architectural engineering, oil and 
gas, and medical imaging. 
Designers who build the products we use every day need the images that they view digitally to mirror reality. This requires 
simulating the physical behavior of light and materials, or physically-based rendering, an emerging trend in professional 
design. Our DesignWorks software delivers this to designers and enables an architect designing a building with a computer-
aided design package to interact with the model in real time, view it in greater detail, and generate photorealistic renderings 
for the client. It also allows an automotive designer to create a highly realistic 3D image of a car, which can be viewed from 
all angles, reducing reliance on costly, time-consuming full-scale clay models.
Just as VR is becoming more important in gaming, it is also being incorporated in a growing number of enterprise 
applications, including within medicine, architecture, product design, and retail. Virtual car showrooms, surgical training, 
architectural walkthroughs, and bringing historical scenes to life all deploy this technology, powered by our GPUs. 
Visual computing is vital to productivity in many environments, including design and manufacturing and digital content 
creation. Design and manufacturing includes computer-aided design, architectural design, consumer-products 
manufacturing, medical instrumentation, and aerospace. Digital content creation includes professional video editing and 
post production, special effects for films, and broadcast-television graphics.
Our brand for this market is Quadro for workstations. Quadro GPUs enhance the productivity of designers by improving 
performance and adding functionality, such as photorealistic rendering, high color fidelity, and advanced scalable display 
capabilities. During fiscal year 2018, we also introduced Holodeck, a photorealistic, collaborative VR environment that allows 
creators and designers to import high-fidelity, full-resolution models into VR and leverage physics simulation to make 
design decisions easier and faster.
Datacenter
The NVIDIA accelerated computing platform addresses AI, in which systems learn using unstructured data, and HPC, in 
which it speeds work toward reaching answers for more narrowly defined problems. The platform consists of our energy 
efficient GPUs, our CUDA programming language, specific libraries such as cuDNN and TensorRT, and innovations such as 
NVLink, which enables application scalability across multiple GPUs.
Deep learning is a new AI computer model where neural networks are trained to recognize patterns from massive amounts 
of data in the form of images, sounds and text - in some instances better than humans. It also greatly increases the 
performance and power efficiency of high-performance computers and datacenter systems. GPUs excel at parallel 
workloads, speeding applications by 10-75x compared with CPUs, reducing each of the many data training iterations from 
weeks to days. In the past year alone, GPUs have sped up training of deep neural networks for AI by as much as 12x.
We are engaged with thousands of organizations working on AI in a multitude of industries, from automating tasks such 
as reading medical images, to enabling fraud detection in financial services, to optimizing oil exploration and drilling. These 
organizations include the world’s leading cloud services companies such as Amazon, Baidu, and Facebook, which are 
infusing AI in applications that enable highly accurate voice recognition and real-time translation; enterprises that are 
increasingly turning to AI to improve products and services; and startups seeking to implement AI in disruptive ways across 
multiple industries. We have partnered with industry leaders such as IBM, Microsoft, and SAP to bring AI to enterprise users. 
We also have partnerships in healthcare and manufacturing, among others, to accelerate the adoption of AI.
To enable deep learning, we provide a family of GPUs designed to speed up training and inferencing of neural networks. 
They are available in industry standard servers from every major computer maker worldwide, including Cisco, Dell, HP, 
Inspur, and Lenovo; from every major cloud service provider such as Alicloud, Amazon Web Services, Baidu Cloud, Google 
Cloud, IBM Cloud, Microsoft Azure, and Oracle Cloud; as well as in our DGX AI supercomputer, a purpose-built system for 
deep learning and GPU accelerated applications. DGX delivers performance equal to hundreds of conventional servers, 
comes fully integrated with hardware, deep learning software, development tools, support for existing AI frameworks, and 
runs popular accelerated applications. We also offer the NVIDIA GPU Cloud, or NGC, a cloud-based service for AI developers 
that provides comprehensive, easy-to-use, optimized deep learning software stacks. With NGC, AI developers can get started 
with deep learning development and deploy it with NVIDIA’s cloud partners such as Amazon.

--- Page 120 ---
7
GPUs also increase the speed of applications used in such fields as aerospace, bio-science research, mechanical and fluid 
simulations, and energy exploration. They have already had a significant impact on scientific discovery, including improving 
heart surgery, mapping human genome folds, seismic modeling, and weather simulations.
Accelerated computing is recognized as the path forward for computing amid the slowing of Moore’s Law. The proportion 
of supercomputers utilizing accelerators has grown sharply over the past five years, now accounting for a significant 
proportion of both the total systems on the TOP500 list, which ranks the 500 most powerful commercially available computer 
systems, and the list’s total floating-point operations per second. Tesla GPU accelerators power many of the world’s fastest 
supercomputers, including the U.S. Department of Energy’s next generation of supercomputers, Summit and Sierra, at Oak 
Ridge and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories, and Japan’s ABCI supercomputer.
We also serve the datacenter market with GRID for virtualized graphics. GRID makes it possible to run graphics-intensive 
applications remotely on a server in the datacenter. Applications include accelerating virtual desktop infrastructures and 
delivering graphics-intensive applications from the cloud for industries such as manufacturing, healthcare, and educational 
institutions, among others.
Automotive
NVIDIA’s Automotive market is comprised of infotainment solutions, advanced driver assistance systems, and AV 
opportunities. Leveraging our technology leadership in AI and building on its long-standing automotive relationships, we 
are delivering a full solution for the AV market under the DRIVE brand. NVIDIA has demonstrated multiple applications of 
AI within the car. AI can drive the car itself as a pilot, in either partial or fully autonomous mode. AI can also be a co-pilot, 
assisting the human driver in creating a safer driving experience. 
NVIDIA is working with over 320 automakers, tier-one suppliers, automotive research institutions, HD mapping companies, 
and startups to develop and deploy AI systems for self-driving vehicles. Our unified AI computing architecture starts with 
mapping and training deep neural networks using our Tesla GPUs, and then running them within the vehicle on the NVIDIA 
DRIVE AI car computing platform. This end-to-end approach leverages NVIDIA DriveWorks software and allows cars to 
receive over-the-air updates to add new features and capabilities throughout the life of a vehicle.
DRIVE PX can understand in real-time what's happening around the vehicle, precisely locate itself on an HD map, and plan 
a safe path forward. This advanced self-driving car platform combines deep learning, sensor fusion, and surround vision 
to change the driving experience. Our DRIVE PX platform scales from a palm-sized, energy-efficient module for AutoCruise 
automated highway-driving capabilities to a configuration with multiple systems aimed at enabling driverless cars. A new 
single-processor configuration of DRIVE PX enables vehicles to use deep neural networks to process data from multiple 
cameras and sensors.
Business Strategies
NVIDIA’s key strategies that shape our overall business approach include:
Advancing the GPU computing platform. The massive parallel processing capabilities of NVIDIA GPUs can solve complex 
problems in significantly less time and with lower power consumption than alternative computational approaches. Indeed, 
GPUs can help solve problems that were previously deemed unsolvable. We work to deliver continued GPU performance 
leaps that outpace Moore’s Law by leveraging innovation across the architecture, chip design, system, and software layers. 
Our strategy is to target markets where GPUs deliver order-of-magnitude performance advantages relative to legacy 
approaches. Our target markets so far include gaming, professional visualization, datacenter, and automotive. While the 
requirements of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our 
GPUs and CUDA as the fundamental building blocks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to make 
leveraged investments in R&D: we can support several multi-billion dollar end markets with the same underlying technology 
by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third party developers and partners. We utilize this 
platform approach in each of our target markets. 
Extending our technology and platform leadership in AI. Deep learning is fundamental to the evolution of AI. We provide 
a complete, end-to-end GPU computing platform for deep learning, addressing both training and inferencing. This includes 
GPUs, our CUDA programming language, algorithms, libraries, and system software. GPUs are uniquely suited to AI, and 
we will continue to add AI-specific features to our GPU architecture to further extend our leadership position. Our AI 
technology leadership is reinforced by our large and expanding ecosystem in a virtuous cycle. Our GPU platforms are 
available from virtually every major server maker and cloud service provider, as well as on our own AI supercomputer.  
There are over 700,000 CUDA developers worldwide who write programs using CUDA to help deploy our technology in our 
target markets. We evangelize AI through partnerships with hundreds of universities and more than 2,000 startups through 
our Inception program. Additionally, our Deep Learning Institute provides instruction on the latest techniques on how to 

--- Page 121 ---
8
design, train, and deploy neural network-powered machine learning in applications. It covers widely used open-source 
frameworks and NVIDIA’s latest GPU-accelerated deep learning platforms.
Extending our technology and platform leadership in visual computing. We believe that visual computing is fundamental 
to the continued expansion and evolution of computing. We apply our research and development resources to extending 
our leadership in visual computing, enabling us to enhance the user experience for consumer entertainment and 
professional visualization applications. Our technologies are instrumental in driving gaming forward, as developers leverage 
our libraries and algorithms to create near-cinematic and VR experiences. Our close collaboration with game developers 
allows us to deliver an optimized gaming experience on our GeForce platform. Our GeForce Experience gaming application 
further enhances each gamer’s experience by optimizing their PC’s settings, as well as enabling the recording and sharing 
of gameplay. We also enable interactive graphics applications - such as games, movie and photo editing and design software 
- to be accessed by almost any device, almost anywhere, through our cloud platforms such as GRID for enterprise and 
GeForce NOW for gaming.
Advancing the leading autonomous vehicle platform. We believe the advent of AV will soon revolutionize the transportation 
industry. In our view, AI is the key technology enabler of this opportunity, as the algorithms required for autonomous driving 
- such as perception, localization, and planning - are too complex for legacy hand-coded approaches, and will run on multiple 
trained neural networks instead. Therefore, we have provided a full functionally safe AI-based hardware and software 
solution for the AV market under the DRIVE brand, which we are bringing to market through our partnerships with automotive 
original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, tier-1 suppliers, and start-ups. Our AV solution also includes the GPU-based 
hardware required to train the neural networks before their in-vehicle deployment, as well as to re-simulate their operation 
prior to any over-the-air software updates. We believe our comprehensive, top-to-bottom and end-to-end approach will 
enable the transportation industry to solve the complex problems arising from the shift to autonomous driving. 
Leveraging our intellectual property. We believe our intellectual property is a valuable asset that can be accessed by our 
customers and partners through licenses and development agreements when they desire to build such capabilities directly 
into their own products, or have us do so through a custom development. Such license and development arrangements 
can further enhance the reach of our technology.
Sales and Marketing
Our sales strategy involves working with end customers and various industry ecosystems through our partner network.  
Our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is key to achieving our objective of providing markets with our high-
performance and efficient GPU and embedded system-on-a-chip, or SOC, platforms. Our sales and marketing teams, located 
across our global markets, work closely with end customers in each industry. Our partner network incorporates each 
industry's respective OEMs, original device manufacturers, or ODMs, system builders, add-in board manufacturers, or AIBs, 
retailers/distributors, internet and cloud service providers, automotive manufacturers and tier-1 automotive suppliers, 
mapping companies, start-ups, and other ecosystem participants.
Members of our sales team have technical expertise and product and industry knowledge. We also employ a team of 
application engineers to assist our partner network in designing, testing, and qualifying system designs that incorporate 
our platforms. We believe that the depth and quality of our design support are key to improving our partner network’s time-
to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction, and fostering relationships that encourage our end customers 
and partner network to use the next generation of our products within each platform.
To encourage the development of applications optimized for our GPUs, we seek to establish and maintain strong relationships 
in the software development community. Engineering and marketing personnel engage with key software developers to 
promote and discuss our platforms, as well as to ascertain individual product requirements and solve technical problems. 
Our developer program makes our products available to developers prior to launch in order to encourage the development 
of AI frameworks, SDKs, and APIs for software applications and game titles that are optimized for our platforms. Our Deep 
Learning Institute provides in-person and online training for developers in industries and organizations around the world 
to build AI and accelerated computing applications that leverage our GPU and CUDA platforms. We now have over 700,000 
registered developers across our platforms, including accelerated computing, gaming, deep learning, autonomous 
machines, and others.
As NVIDIA’s business has evolved from a focus primarily on gaming products to broader markets, and from chips to platforms 
and complete systems, so, too, have our avenues to market. Thus, in addition to sales to customers in our partner network, 
certain of our platforms are also sold through e-tail channels, or direct to cloud service providers and enterprise customers.
Backlog 
Our sales are primarily made pursuant to standard purchase orders. The quantity of products purchased by our customers 
as well as our shipment schedules are subject to revisions that reflect changes in both the customers' requirements and 

--- Page 122 ---
9
in manufacturing availability. Our industry is characterized by relatively short lead time orders and delivery schedules, thus, 
we believe that only a small portion of our backlog is non-cancelable and that the dollar amount associated with the non-
cancelable portion is not significant.
Seasonality
Our GPU and Tegra processor platforms serve many markets from consumer PC gaming to enterprise workstations to 
government and cloud service provider datacenters, although a majority of our revenue stems from the consumer industry. 
Our consumer products have typically seen stronger revenue in the second half of our fiscal year. However, there can be 
no assurance that this trend will continue.
Manufacturing 
We do not directly manufacture semiconductors used for our products. Instead, we utilize a fabless manufacturing strategy, 
whereby we employ world-class suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication, 
assembly, testing, and packaging. This strategy uses the expertise of industry-leading suppliers that are certified by the 
International Organization for Standardization in such areas as fabrication, assembly, quality control and assurance, 
reliability, and testing. Additionally, we can avoid many of the significant costs and risks associated with owning and operating 
manufacturing operations. While we may directly procure certain raw materials used in the production of our products, 
such as substrates and a variety of components, our suppliers are responsible for procurement of the majority of the raw 
materials used in the production of our products. As a result, we can focus our resources on product design, additional 
quality assurance, marketing, and customer support.
We utilize industry-leading suppliers, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited and Samsung 
Electronics Co. Ltd, to produce our semiconductor wafers. We then utilize independent subcontractors, such as Advanced 
Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., BYD Auto Co. Ltd., Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., JSI Logistics Ltd., King Yuan 
Electronics Co., Ltd., and Siliconware Precision Industries Company Ltd. to perform assembly, testing, and packaging of 
most of our products and platforms. We purchase substrates from IbidenCo. Ltd., Nanya Technology Corporation, and 
Unimicron Technology Corporation, and memory from Micron Technology, Samsung Semiconductor, Inc., and SK Hynix.
We typically receive semiconductor products from our subcontractors, perform incoming quality assurance, and then ship 
the semiconductors to contract equipment manufacturers, or CEMs, distributors, motherboard and AIB customers from 
our third-party warehouse in Hong Kong. Generally, these manufacturers assemble and test the boards based on our design 
kit and test specifications, and then ship our products to retailers, system builders, or OEMs as motherboard and AIB 
solutions.
We also utilize industry-leading contract manufacturers, or CMs, such as BYD and Quanta Computer, to manufacture some 
of our products for sale directly to end customers. In those cases, key elements such as the GPU, SOC and memory are 
often consigned by us to the CMs, who are responsible for the procurement of other components used in the production 
process.
Working Capital
We focus considerable attention on managing our inventories and other working-capital-related items. We manage 
inventories by communicating with our customers and partners and then using our industry experience to forecast demand 
on a platform-by-platform basis. We then place manufacturing orders for our products that are based on forecasted demand. 
We generally maintain substantial inventories of our products because the semiconductor industry is characterized by 
short lead time orders and quick delivery schedules. A substantial amount of our inventories is maintained as semi-finished 
products that can be leveraged across a wide range of our processors to balance our customer demands.
Our existing cash and marketable securities balances increased by 5% to $7.11 billion at the end of fiscal year 2018 compared 
with the end of fiscal year 2017.
Research and Development
We believe that the continued introduction of new and enhanced products designed to deliver leading accelerated computing 
technology is essential to our future success. Our research and development strategy is focused on a unified hardware and 
software architecture. Our products take years to design and bring to market, and we concurrently develop multiple 
generations of our architecture. Our research and development efforts include software engineering, including efforts 
related to the development of our CUDA platform, hardware engineering related to our GPUs, Tegra processors, and systems, 
very large scale integration design engineering, process engineering, architecture and algorithms.

--- Page 123 ---
10
As of January 28, 2018, we had 8,191 full-time employees engaged in research and development. During fiscal years 2018, 
2017 and 2016, we incurred research and development expenses of $1.80 billion, $1.46 billion, and $1.33 billion, respectively.
Competition 
The market for our products is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving 
industry standards. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product 
offerings, access to customers and partners and distribution channels, software support, conformity to industry standard 
Application Programming Interfaces, manufacturing capabilities, processor pricing, and total system costs. We believe that 
our ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers 
and partners will demand and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of 
quality and at competitive prices. We expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants 
with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by 
our products. In addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire 
significant market share.
A significant source of competition comes from companies that provide or intend to provide GPUs, embedded SOCs, and 
accelerated and AI computing processor products. Some of our competitors may have greater marketing, financial, 
distribution and manufacturing resources than we do and may be more able to adapt to customer or technological changes.
Our current competitors include:
• suppliers or licensors of discrete and integrated GPUs and accelerated computing solutions, including chipsets that 
incorporate 3D graphics, or HPC or accelerated computing functionality as part of their solutions or platforms, such 
as Advanced Micro Devices, or AMD, ARM Holdings plc, Imagination Technologies Group plc, Intel Corporation, or Intel, 
and Xilinx, Inc.; and
• suppliers of SOC products that are embedded into automobiles, autonomous machines, and smart devices such as 
televisions, monitors, set-top boxes, and gaming devices, such as Ambarella, Inc., AMD, Broadcom Ltd., Intel, 
Qualcomm Incorporated, Renesas Electronics Corporation, Samsung, and Texas Instruments Incorporated.
Patents and Proprietary Rights
We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure 
agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the United States and internationally. Our 
currently issued patents have expiration dates from April 2018 to January 2037. We have numerous patents issued, allowed, 
and pending in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate 
to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. We also rely on international treaties, organizations, 
and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may 
be manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights 
to the same extent as the laws of the United States. This decreased protection makes the possibility of piracy of our 
technology and products more likely. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular 
innovations and technologies based on such factors as:
• the location in which our products are manufactured;
• our strategic technology or product directions in different countries;
• the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions; and
• the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations in particular countries and regions.
We have also licensed technology from third parties for incorporation in some of our products and for defensive reasons, 
and expect to continue to enter into such license agreements.
Employees
As of January 28, 2018, we had 11,528 employees, 8,191 of whom were engaged in research and development and 3,337
of whom were engaged in sales, marketing, operations, and administrative positions. 
Environmental Regulatory Compliance
To date, we have not incurred significant expenses related to environmental regulatory compliance matters. 
Financial Information by Reporting Segment and Geographic Data
The information included in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual 
Report on Form 10-K, including financial information by reportable segment and revenue and long-lived assets by 

--- Page 124 ---
11
geographic region, is hereby incorporated by reference. For additional detail regarding the risks attendant to our foreign 
operations see “Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Partners - We are subject to risks and 
uncertainties associated with international operations, which may harm our business.”
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and positions as of February 26, 
2018:
Name Age Position
Jen-Hsun Huang 55 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Colette M. Kress 50 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Ajay K. Puri 63 Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations
Debora Shoquist 63 Executive Vice President, Operations
Timothy S. Teter 51 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
Jen-Hsun Huang co-founded NVIDIA in 1993 and has served as our President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the 
Board of Directors since our inception. From 1985 to 1993, Mr. Huang was employed at LSI Logic Corporation, a computer 
chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions including as Director of Coreware, the business unit responsible 
for LSI's SOC. From 1983 to 1985, Mr. Huang was a microprocessor designer for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a 
semiconductor company. Mr. Huang holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Oregon State University and an M.S.E.E. degree from 
Stanford University.
Colette M. Kress joined NVIDIA in 2013 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Kress 
most recently served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Business Technology and Operations Finance 
organization at Cisco Systems, Inc., a networking equipment company, since 2010. At Cisco, Ms. Kress was responsible for 
financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for all business segments, engineering and operations. 
From 1997 to 2010 Ms. Kress held a variety of positions at Microsoft Corporation, a software company, including, beginning 
in 2006, Chief Financial Officer of the Server and Tools division, where Ms. Kress was responsible for financial strategy, 
planning, reporting and business development for the division. Prior to joining Microsoft, Ms. Kress spent eight years at 
Texas Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a variety of finance positions. Ms. Kress holds 
a B.S. degree in Finance from University of Arizona and an M.B.A. degree from Southern Methodist University.
Ajay K. Puri joined NVIDIA in 2005 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and became Executive Vice President, 
Worldwide Field Operations in 2009. Prior to NVIDIA, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over 
a 22-year career at Sun Microsystems, Inc., a computing systems company. Mr. Puri previously held marketing, management 
consulting, and product development positions at Hewlett-Packard Company, an information technology company, Booz 
Allen Hamilton Inc., a management and technology consulting company, and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Mr. Puri holds 
a B.S.E.E. degree from the University of Minnesota, an M.S.E.E. degree from the California Institute of Technology and an 
M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School.
Debora Shoquist joined NVIDIA in 2007 as Senior Vice President of Operations and in 2009 became Executive Vice President 
of Operations. Her role has since expanded with responsibility added for Facilities in 2013, and for Information Technology 
in 2015. Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Shoquist served from 2004 to 2007 as Executive Vice President of Operations at JDS Uniphase 
Corp., a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications 
industry. She served from 2002 to 2004 as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Electro-Optics business at 
Coherent, Inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. Previously, she worked at Quantum Corp., a 
data protection company, as President of the Personal Computer Hard Disk Drive Division, and at Hewlett-Packard Corp. 
Ms. Shoquist holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Kansas State University and a B.S. degree in Biology from 
Santa Clara University.
Timothy S. Teter joined NVIDIA in 2017 as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and became Executive 
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in February 2018. Prior to NVIDIA, Mr. Teter spent more than two decades 
at the law firm of Cooley LLP. He was most recently a partner at Cooley, where he focused on litigating patent and technology 
related matters. Prior to attending law school, he worked as an engineer at Lockheed Missiles and Space Company. Mr. 
Teter holds a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California at Davis and a J.D. degree from Stanford 
Law School.

--- Page 125 ---
12
Available Information
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, 
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 
amended, are available free of charge on or through our web site, http://www.nvidia.com, as soon as reasonably practicable 
after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Our 
web site and the information on it or connected to it are not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
In evaluating NVIDIA and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this 
Annual Report on Form 10-K. Before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves 
risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. Any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial 
condition, results of operations or reputation, which could cause our stock price to decline, and you may lose all or a part of your 
investment. Additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may 
also harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.
Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Partners
If we fail to meet the evolving needs of our markets, or identify new products, services or technologies, our revenue and 
financial results may be adversely impacted.
We have created GPU-based visual and accelerated computing platforms that address four large markets: Gaming, 
Professional Visualization, Datacenter, and Automotive. These markets often experience rapid technological change, 
changes in customer requirements, new product introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards. Our 
success depends on our ability to identify these emerging industry changes and to develop new (or enhance our existing) 
products, services and technologies that meet the evolving needs of these markets. Such activities may require considerable 
technical, financial, compliance, sales and marketing investments. We currently devote significant resources to the 
development of technologies and business offerings in markets where we have a limited operating history, such as the 
automotive and datacenter markets, which presents additional risks to our business. We must also continue to develop the 
infrastructure needed to appropriately scale our business in these areas, including customer service and customer support. 
We also must meet customer safety and compliance standards, which are subject to change. Additionally, we continue to 
make considerable investments in research and development, which may not produce significant revenue for several years, 
if at all. If our investments are unsuccessful and we fail to develop new products, services and technologies, or if we focus 
on technologies that do not become widely adopted, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations 
could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our strategic direction will result in innovative products and 
technologies that provide value to our customers, partners and ultimately, our shareholders. If we fail to anticipate the 
changing needs of our target markets and emerging technology trends, or if we do not appropriately adapt that strategy 
as market conditions evolve, in a timely manner to exploit potential market opportunities, our business will be harmed.
Competition in our current and target markets could prevent us from growing our revenue.
Our target markets remain extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand 
their product and/or service offerings, industry standards continue to evolve, customer needs change and new competitors 
enter these markets. Our competitors’ products, services and technologies may be less costly, or may offer superior 
functionality or better features, than ours, which may result, among other things, in lower than expected selling prices for 
our products. In addition, some of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities, have longer operating 
histories, larger customer bases, more comprehensive intellectual property, or IP, portfolios and patent protections, and 
greater financial, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. These competitors may be able to more effectively 
identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets and end user customer trends, quickly transition their products, 
including semiconductor products, to increasingly smaller line width geometries, and obtain sufficient foundry capacity 
and packaging materials, which could harm our business. If we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets, 
respond to changes in our target markets or introduce new offerings to meet the needs of this competitive environment, 
including in significant international markets such as China, demand for our products, services and technologies could 
decrease, which would cause our revenue to decline and cause our results of operations to suffer.  In addition, the competitive 
landscape in our target markets has changed and may continue to evolve due to a trend toward consolidation, which could 
lead to fewer customers, partners, or suppliers, any of which could negatively affect our financial results.

--- Page 126 ---
13
System security and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce our 
expected revenue and increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation.
Security breaches, computer malware and cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. 
These threats are constantly evolving, making it increasingly difficult to successfully defend against them or implement 
adequate preventative measures. These attacks have occurred on our systems in the past and are expected to occur in the 
future. Experienced computer programmers, hackers and employees may penetrate our security controls and 
misappropriate or compromise our confidential information, or that of our employees or third parties. These attacks may 
create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. These hackers may also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other 
malicious software programs that attack or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities in our products, including consumer 
and automotive products, where we utilize over-the-air updates to improve functionality over time. For portions of our IT 
infrastructure, including business management and communication software products, we rely on products and services 
provided by third parties. These providers may also experience breaches and attacks to their products which may impact 
our systems. Data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, such as actions by an employee with 
access to our systems. To defend against security threats, both to our internal systems and those of our customers, we 
must continuously engineer more secure products and enhance security and reliability features, which may result in 
increased expenses.
Actual or perceived breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved 
dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our partners, our customers or third 
parties could expose us and the parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and 
potential liability, paying damages, regulatory inquiries or actions, damage to our brand and reputation or other harm to 
our business. Our efforts to prevent and overcome these challenges could increase our expenses and may not be successful. 
We may experience interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. Such disruptions 
could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other critical functions. Delayed sales, lower margins or 
lost customers as a result of these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation.
If our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation 
could be damaged, and we could lose market share.
Our products are complex and may contain defects or security vulnerabilities, or experience failures or unsatisfactory 
performance due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. These 
risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, markets, technologies and applications, including into 
the automotive market, or as new versions are released. Some errors in our products or services may only be discovered 
after a product or service has been shipped or used by customers or the end users of such product. Undiscovered 
vulnerabilities in our products or services could expose our customers or end users to hackers or other unscrupulous third 
parties who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that could attack our products or 
services. Failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage 
to the products we sell directly to customers, the end product in which our device has been integrated by OEMs, ODMs, AIBs 
and Tier 1 automotive suppliers, and to the user of such end product. Any such defect may cause us to incur significant 
warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, write off the value of related inventory, cause us to lose market share, 
and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue. 
In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial 
shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins, harm our relationships with customers 
and partners and harm consumers’ perceptions of our brand. Also, we may be required to reimburse our customers, 
partners or consumers, including costs to repair or replace products in the field. A product recall, including automotive 
recalls or a recall due to a bug in our products, or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our 
reputation, harm our ability to attract new customers, result in the shifting of business to our competitors and result in 
litigation against us, such as product liability suits. If a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending 
the claim could be significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our 
business. Further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable 
terms, which could adversely impact our financial results.
We depend on third parties and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test and/or package our products, which 
reduces our control over product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, development, enhancement and product 
delivery schedule and could harm our business.
We do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our GPUs and Tegra processors and do not own or operate a wafer 
fabrication facility. Instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing 
Company Limited and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication 
equipment and techniques. Similarly, we do not directly assemble, test or package our products, but instead rely on 

--- Page 127 ---
14
independent subcontractors. We do not have long-term commitment contracts with these foundries or subcontractors. As 
a result, we face several significant risks which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and/
or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results, including:
• a lack of guaranteed supply of wafers and other components and potential higher wafer and component prices due 
to supply constraints;
• a failure by our foundries to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate or any manufacturing or test 
capacity for our products;
• a failure to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies, including 
transitions to smaller geometry process technologies such as 16nm FinFET, and memory designs such as CoWoS, 
needed to manufacture our products profitably or on a timely basis;
• loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or 
subcontractor and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change 
a supplier;
• a lack of direct control over delivery schedules or product quantity and quality; and
• delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or higher expenses in the event our 
subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors’ orders over our orders or otherwise.
In addition, low manufacturing yields could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand, increase 
manufacturing costs, harm customer or partner relationships, and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross 
margin, revenue and/or financial results. Manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is 
developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the foundry. Low yields may result from 
either product design or process technology failure. We do not know whether a yield problem will exist until our design is 
actually manufactured by the foundry. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the manufacturing 
process and require us and the foundry to cooperate to resolve the problem. 
We also rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products 
or product enhancements, and to bring such new products and enhancements to market in a timely manner. In the past, 
we have experienced delays in the introduction of products and enhancements as a result of the inability of then available 
software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. The design 
requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may 
exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. If we miss design cycles or lose design wins due to the 
unavailability of such software development tools, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline.
If we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed.
For our products that we do not sell directly to consumers, achieving design wins is an important success factor. Achieving 
design wins may involve a lengthy process in pursuit of a customer opportunity and depend on our ability to anticipate 
features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand. Failure to obtain a particular design win may prevent 
us from obtaining design wins in subsequent generations of a particular product. This could result in lost revenue and could 
weaken our position in future competitive bid selection processes. 
Unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major 
hardware manufacturers and software developers. Further, if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry 
standards, including safety standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. Winning 
a product design does not guarantee sales to a customer or that we will realize as much revenue as anticipated, if any.
Business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs.
Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, 
outages at cloud service providers, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, cyber-attacks, 
terrorist attacks, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate 
change. The occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in 
revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. Any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures 
and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and 
development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located 
in Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. In addition, a majority of our current datacenter capacity 
is located in California, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in 
these geographical areas. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical 
operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including Taiwan, China and Korea. Geopolitical change or 
changes in government regulations and policies in the U.S. or abroad also may result in changing regulatory requirements, 

--- Page 128 ---
15
trade policies, and economic disruptions that could impact our operating strategies, access to global markets, hiring, and 
profitability. Catastrophic events can also have an impact on third-party vendors who provide us critical infrastructure 
services for IT and research and development systems and personnel. Our operations could be harmed if manufacturing, 
logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events 
or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, 
public health, regulatory or political issues. The ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers and 
our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical 
areas is unknown. In the event a major earthquake or other disaster or catastrophic event affects us or the third-party 
systems on which we rely, our business could be harmed as a result of declines in revenue, increases in expenses, substantial 
expenditures and time spent to fully resume operations.
If we fail to estimate customer demand properly, our financial results could be harmed.
We manufacture our GPUs and Tegra processors based on estimates of customer demand and requirements. In order to 
have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers, we may build inventories for anticipated 
periods of growth which do not occur, or may build inventory anticipating demand for a product that does not materialize. 
In estimating demand, we make multiple assumptions, any of which may prove to be incorrect. Situations that may result 
in excess or obsolete inventory include:
• changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in our target markets and/or overall economy;
• changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market;
• a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products;
• a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology or customer requirements;
• our introduction of new products resulting in lower demand for older products; 
• less demand than expected for newly-introduced products; or
• increased competition, including competitive pricing actions.
The cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely 
affect our gross margins. In addition, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each 
quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer 
cancellations or deferrals. We could be required to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or market or write-off 
excess inventory, and we could experience a reduction in average selling prices if we incorrectly forecast product demand, 
any of which could harm our financial results.
Conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our foundry partners may not have adequate 
lead-time or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill customers' orders 
on a timely basis. We may also face supply constraints caused by natural disasters or other events. In such cases, even if 
we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective or 
timely manner. If we fail to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, our customer relationships could be 
damaged, we could lose revenue and market share and our reputation could be damaged.
We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations, which may harm our business.
We conduct our business worldwide and we have offices in various countries outside of the United States. Our semiconductor 
wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the United States and Other 
Americas. We also generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales outside the United States and Other Americas. 
Revenue from sales outside of the United States and Other Americas accounted for 79%, 80%, and 79% of total revenue 
for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. Additionally, as of January 28, 2018, approximately 47% of our employees 
were located outside of the United States. The global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and 
uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, 
including:
• international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business;
• unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including changes in tax laws;
• differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices;
• local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices 
that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anticorruption laws and 
regulations;
• exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions,  including deemed export restrictions, tariffs, 
quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; 

--- Page 129 ---
16
• disruptions of capital and trading markets and currency fluctuations; and
• increased costs due to imposition of climate change regulations, such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and 
pollution limits.
If our sales outside of the United States and Other Americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, 
our revenue may be negatively impacted.
If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees, we may not be able to execute our 
business strategy effectively. 
To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must attract, retain and motivate our executives and 
key employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. In particular, 
hiring qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff and research and development personnel is critical to our 
business. Additionally, changes in immigration and work permit laws and regulations or the administration or interpretation 
of such laws or regulations could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. If we are less successful 
in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and 
services may be adversely affected. Additionally, competition for personnel results in increased costs in the form of cash 
and stock-based compensation. The interpretation and application of employment related laws to our workforce practices 
may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs. Effective succession 
planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions 
involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution.
We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments 
and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, 
develop new products or sell our products.
We have in the past acquired and invested in, and may continue to acquire and invest in, other businesses that offer products, 
services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products, strategic objectives and 
business. The risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, 
develop new products or sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial 
results. Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we 
pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us 
achieve our strategic objectives. Additional risks related to acquisitions or strategic investments include, but are not limited 
to:
• difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business;
• diversion of capital and other resources, including management’s attention; 
• assumption of liabilities and incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of 
acquired assets; 
• difficulty in realizing a satisfactory return, if at all; 
• difficulty in obtaining regulatory, other approvals or financing; 
• failure and costs associated with the failure to consummate a proposed acquisition or other strategic investment; 
• legal proceedings initiated as a result of an acquisition or investment; 
• uncertainties and time needed to realize the benefits of an acquisition or strategic investment, if at all; 
• the need to later divest acquired assets if an acquisition does not meet our expectations; 
• potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues with the acquired assets or company; 
and
• impairment of relationships with, or loss of our or our target’s, employees, vendors and customers, as a result of 
our acquisition or investment.
Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Common Stock and Other Matters
Actions to adequately protect our IP rights could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be 
harmed if we are unsuccessful in doing so or if we are prohibited from making or selling our products.
We have in the past, currently are, and may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging 
patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us, our employees or parties that we have agreed to 
indemnify for certain claims of infringement. An unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could 
include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost 
profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. Claims that our products or processes infringe the IP rights of others, 

--- Page 130 ---
17
regardless of their merit, could cause us to incur significant costs to respond to, defend, and resolve such claims, and they 
may also divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel.
We may commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to protect our intellectual property rights. Such proceedings 
may increase our operating expenses, which could negatively impact our operating results. Further, we could be subject 
to countersuits as a result of our initiation of litigation. If infringement claims are made against us or our products are 
found to infringe a third party’s patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to 
the third party’s patent or other intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on 
terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. If we or one of our indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from 
a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities 
or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. We may also have to make 
royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. If these arrangements are not concluded on commercially 
reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other 
indemnitee may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results.
Our success depends in part on protecting our intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely primarily on a combination 
of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements, and 
the laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our intellectual property in the United States and internationally. 
We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, and even with 
significant expenditures we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights that are valuable to our business. 
The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the 
laws of the United States. This makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. In addition, the 
theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our 
competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in research and 
development, product development, and marketing could be reduced. We continuously assess whether and where to seek 
formal protection for existing and new innovations and technologies, but cannot be certain whether our applications for 
such protections will be approved, and, if approved, whether we will be able to enforce such protections.
Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are below 
the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline.
Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future continue to fluctuate due to numerous factors. 
Therefore, investors should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future 
performance.
Factors, other than those described elsewhere in these risk factors, that could affect our results of operations in the future 
include, but are not limited to:
• our ability to achieve volume production of our next-generation products;
• our inability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to the multi-year development cycle for some of our 
products and services;
• fluctuations in the demand for our products related to cryptocurrencies; 
• changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our partners’ products;
•  our ability to cover the manufacturing and design costs of our products through competitive pricing;
• our ability to comply and continue to comply with our customers’ contractual obligations;
• product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues;
• our ability to secure appropriate safety certifications and meet industry safety standards;
• supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our products 
• inventory write-downs;
• our ability to continue generating revenue from our partner network, including by generating sales within our partner 
network and ensuring our products are incorporated into our partners product ecosystems, and our partner network’s 
ability to sell products that incorporate our GPUs and Tegra processors;
• the inability of certain of our customers to make required payments to us, and our ability to obtain credit insurance 
over the purchasing credit extended to these customers;
• customer bad debt write-offs;
• any unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities;
• unexpected costs related to our ownership of real property;

--- Page 131 ---
18
• changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards; and
• general macroeconomic or industry events and factors affecting the overall market and our target markets.
Any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future financial results. Any 
such failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors or security analysts could cause our stock price 
to decline or experience substantial price volatility.
Privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter current and potential users 
from using our products and services, result in liability, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings.
Our products and services may provide us with access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is 
subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, 
retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage 
our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. The theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, 
or transferred by us to run our business or by one of our partners could result in significantly increased security costs, 
damage to our reputation, regulatory proceedings, disruption of our business activities or increased costs related to 
defending legal claims.
Worldwide regulatory authorities are considering and have approved various legislative proposals concerning data 
protection, which continue to evolve and apply to our business. For example, the European Union adopted the General Data 
Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which requires companies to meet new requirements beginning in May 2018 regarding 
the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or 
delete such data about themselves. Failure to meet GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide 
revenue. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the United States, Europe 
and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our 
data practices. If so, we may be ordered to change our data practices and/or be fined. Complying with these changing laws 
has caused, and could continue to cause, us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business 
and results of operations. Further, failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders 
to stop the alleged noncompliant activity.
We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our operating results may be adversely impacted by higher than 
expected tax rates.
As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, 
use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign 
jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different 
jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax 
liabilities. Further, changes in United States federal, and state or international tax laws applicable to multinational 
corporations or other fundamental law changes may materially impact our tax expense and cash flows, as we experienced 
in fiscal year 2018 with the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA.
Our future effective tax rate may be affected by such factors as changes in tax laws, changes in our business or statutory 
rates, changes in jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed, changes in available tax credits, 
the resolution of issues arising from tax audits, changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles, 
adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, changes 
in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and in deferred tax valuation allowances, changing interpretation 
of existing laws or regulations, the impact of accounting for stock-based compensation and the recognition of excess tax 
benefits and tax deficiencies within the income tax provision in the period in which they occur, the impact of accounting for 
business combinations, shifts in the amount of earnings in the United States compared with other regions in the world and 
overall levels of income before tax, changes in our international organization, as well as the expiration of statute of limitations 
and settlements of audits. Any changes in our effective tax rate may reduce our net income.
Our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation, investigations and regulatory proceedings.
We have in the past and may, from time to time, face legal, administrative and regulatory proceedings, claims, demands 
and investigations involving shareholder, consumer, competition and other issues relating to our business on a global basis. 
In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the 
market price of its securities and we have been in the past, and may be in the future, the target of securities litigation. The 
laws and regulations our business is subject to are complex, and change frequently. We may be required to incur significant 
expense to comply with, or remedy violations of, these regulations. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently 
uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing 
or selling certain products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing 

--- Page 132 ---
19
of patents. An unfavorable outcome or settlement may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of 
operations, financial position, and overall trends. In addition, regardless of the outcome, litigation can be costly, time-
consuming, and disruptive to our operations.
Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with Microsoft Corporation 
could delay or prevent a change in control.
Our status as a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may 
discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested 
shareholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested shareholder, even if a change of control 
would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions 
that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions 
include the following:
• the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior shareholder approval;
• the prohibition of shareholder action by written consent;
• advance notice requirements for director nominations and shareholder proposals;
• the ability of our Board of Directors to increase or decrease the number of directors without shareholder approval;
• a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;
• the inability of our shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and
• the ability of our Board of Directors to make, amend or repeal our bylaws.
On March 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and 
to license certain technology to Microsoft and its licensees for use in the Xbox. Under the agreement, if an individual or 
corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common 
stock, Microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. The Microsoft provision and the other factors 
listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of NVIDIA. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests 
and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate 
actions they desire.
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
Not applicable.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our headquarters complex is located in Santa Clara, California. It includes ten leased commercial buildings totaling 963,317
square feet, and real property that we own totaling 1,496,006 square feet. Our owned property consists of seven commercial 
buildings on 36 acres of land. In addition, we also lease datacenter space in Santa Clara, California.
Outside of Santa Clara, California, we lease facilities in Austin, Texas and a number of regional facilities in other U.S. locations, 
that are used as research and development centers and/or sales and administrative offices. Outside of the United States, 
we own a building in Hyderabad, India, that is being used primarily as a research and development center. We also lease 
facilities in various international locations that are used as research and development centers and/or sales and 
administrative offices. These leased facilities are located primarily in Asia and Europe. In addition, we also lease datacenter 
space in various locations around the world.
We believe that we currently have sufficient facilities to conduct our operations for the next twelve months. For additional 
information regarding obligations under leases, refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in 
Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the subheading “Lease Obligations,” which information is hereby 
incorporated by reference.
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Please see Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 
10-K for a discussion of our legal proceedings.
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not Applicable.

--- Page 133 ---
20
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER 
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol NVDA. Public trading of our common 
stock began on January 22, 1999. Prior to that, there was no public market for our common stock. As of February 26, 2018, 
we had approximately 314 registered shareholders, not including those shares held in street or nominee name. The following 
table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low sales price for our common stock as quoted on the NASDAQ Global 
Select Market:
High Low
Fiscal year ending January 27, 2019    
First Quarter (through February 26, 2018) $ 251.97 $ 204.00
Fiscal year ended January 28, 2018
Fourth Quarter $ 243.34 $ 180.58
Third Quarter $ 201.87 $ 152.91
Second Quarter $ 169.93 $ 102.31
First Quarter $ 120.92 $ 95.17
Fiscal year ended January 29, 2017
Fourth Quarter $ 119.93 $ 66.58
Third Quarter $ 72.95 $ 55.50
Second Quarter $ 57.25 $ 34.40
First Quarter $ 37.46 $ 24.75
Dividend Policy 
In November 2017, we increased our quarterly cash dividend from $0.14 per share, or $0.56 on an annual basis, to $0.15 
per share, or $0.60 on an annual basis. In fiscal years 2018 and 2017, we paid $341 million and $261 million, respectively, 
in cash dividends to our common shareholders. 
Our cash dividend program and the payment of future cash dividends under the program are subject to continued capital 
availability and our Board of Directors' continuing determination that the dividend program and the declaration of dividends 
thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements of NVIDIA 
applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. In calendar year 2017, based upon our earnings and profits, 
100% of our dividend payments were considered to be ordinary dividends. It is possible that a portion of our dividend 
payments in future calendar years may be considered a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock. In November 2016, the Board 
authorized an additional $2.00 billion under our repurchase program and extended it through December 2020. 
Since the inception of our share repurchase program, we have repurchased an aggregate of 251 million shares under our 
share repurchase program for a total cost of $5.5 billion through January 28, 2018. All shares delivered from these 
repurchases have been placed into treasury stock. As of January 28, 2018, we were authorized, subject to certain 
specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $1.82 billion through December 2020. For fiscal 
year 2019, we intend to return $1.25 billion to our shareholders through ongoing quarterly cash dividends and share 
repurchases.
The repurchases can be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured share repurchase 
programs, and can be made in one or more larger repurchases, in compliance with Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, as amended, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other factors. The program does 
not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at 
our discretion. As part of our share repurchase program, we may enter into structured share repurchase transactions with 
financial institutions. These agreements generally require that we make an up-front payment in exchange for the right to 
receive a fixed number of shares of our common stock upon execution of the agreement, and a potential incremental number 
of shares of our common stock, within a pre-determined range, at the end of the term of the agreement.

--- Page 134 ---
21
Transactions Related to our Convertible Notes and Note Hedges
During fiscal year 2018, we issued an aggregate of 33 million shares of our common stock upon settlement of $812 million
in principal amount of Convertible Notes submitted for conversion. In connection with these conversions, we exercised a 
portion of our Note Hedges to acquire an equal number of shares of our common stock. The counterparty to the Note Hedges 
may be deemed an “affiliated purchaser” and may have purchased the shares of our common stock deliverable to us upon 
this exercise of our option. Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion regarding the Convertible Notes and the Note Hedges.
Restricted Stock Unit Share Withholding
We also withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover tax withholding obligations upon 
the vesting of restricted stock unit awards under our employee equity incentive program. During fiscal year 2018, we 
withheld approximately 4 million shares at a total cost of $612 million through net share settlements. Refer to Note 2 of 
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further 
discussion regarding our equity incentive plans.
Stock Performance Graphs 
The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return for our common stock, the S&P 500 Index, and the 
NASDAQ 100 Index for the five years ended January 28, 2018. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on January 27, 
2013 in our common stock and in each of the S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ 100 Index. Our common stock is a component 
of each of the presented indices. Total return assumes reinvestment of dividends in each of the indices indicated. Total 
return is based on historical results and is not intended to indicate future performance.
*$100 invested on 1/27/13 in stock and in indices, including reinvestment of dividends. 
The S&P 500 index is proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by S&P Opco, LLC (a subsidiary of S&P 
Dow Jones Indices LLC), its affiliates and/or its licensors and has been licensed for use. S&P® and S&P 500®, among other 
famous marks, are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC, and Dow Jones® is a registered 
trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. © 2016 S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC, its affiliates and/or its licensors. 
All rights reserved.

--- Page 135 ---
22
  1/27/2013 1/26/2014 1/25/2015 1/31/2016 1/29/2017 1/28/2018
NVIDIA Corporation $ 100.00 $ 128.11 $ 173.58 $ 249.54 $ 961.32 $ 2,100.92
S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 121.52 $ 138.80 $ 137.88 $ 165.51 $ 209.22
NASDAQ 100 $ 100.00 $ 130.82 $ 156.01 $ 162.90 $ 197.32 $ 271.03
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the notes thereto, 
and with Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Consolidated 
Statements of Income data for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016 and the Consolidated Balance Sheets data as of January 28, 
2018 and January 29, 2017 have been derived from and should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial 
statements and the notes thereto included in Part IV, Item 15 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We operate on a 52- or 
53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January. Fiscal years 2018, 2017, 2015, and 2014 were 52-week years and fiscal 
year 2016 was a 53-week year.
  Year Ended
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016 (A)
January 25,
2015
January 26,
2014
Consolidated Statements of Income Data: (In millions, except per share data)
Revenue $ 9,714 $ 6,910 $ 5,010 $ 4,682 $ 4,130
Income from operations $ 3,210 $ 1,934 $ 747 $ 759 $ 496
Net income $ 3,047 $ 1,666 $ 614 $ 631 $ 440
Net income per share:
Basic $ 5.09 $ 3.08 $ 1.13 $ 1.14 $ 0.75
Diluted $ 4.82 $ 2.57 $ 1.08 $ 1.12 $ 0.74
Weighted average shares used in per share
computation:
Basic 599 541 543 552 588
Diluted 632 649 569 563 595
Year Ended
January 28,
 2018 (B,C)
January 29,
 2017 (B,C)
January 31,
2016 (B)
January 25,
2015
January 26,
2014
Consolidated Balance Sheets Data: (In millions, except per share data)
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities $ 7,108 $ 6,798 $ 5,037 $ 4,623 $ 4,672
Total assets $ 11,241 $ 9,841 $ 7,370 $ 7,201 $ 7,251
Debt obligations $ 2,000 $ 2,779 $ 1,413 $ 1,384 $ 1,356
Convertible debt conversion obligation $ — $ 31 $ 87 $ — $ —
Total shareholders’ equity $ 7,471 $ 5,762 $ 4,469 $ 4,418 $ 4,456
Cash dividends declared and paid per common 
share (D) $ 0.570 $ 0.485 $ 0.395 $ 0.340 $ 0.310  
(A) In fiscal year 2016, we began the wind down of our Icera modem operations. As a result, our income from operations for fiscal year 2016 included 
$131 million of restructuring and other charges.
(B) In fiscal year 2014, we issued 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018 in the aggregate principal amount of $1.50 billion. The Convertible Notes 
first became convertible as of February 1, 2016. As of January 28, 2018, the carrying value of the Convertible Notes was classified as a current 
liability and the difference between the principal amount and the carrying value of the Convertible Notes was classified as convertible debt conversion 
obligation in the mezzanine equity section of our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
(C) In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the Notes Due 2021, and $1.00 billion of the Notes Due 2026. Interest on the Notes is payable on 
March 16 and September 16 of each year, beginning on March 16, 2017. Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in 
Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
(D) In November 2012, we initiated a quarterly dividend payment of $0.075 per share, or $0.30 per share on an annual basis. In November 2013, we 
increased the quarterly cash dividend to $0.085 per share, or $0.34 per share on an annual basis. In May 2015, we increased the quarterly cash 
dividend to $0.0975 per share, or $0.39 per share on an annual basis. In November 2015, we increased the quarterly cash dividend to $0.115 per 

--- Page 136 ---
23
share, or $0.46 per share on an annual basis. In November 2016, we increased the quarterly cash dividend to $0.14 per share, or $0.56 per share 
on an annual basis. In November 2017, we increased the quarterly cash dividend to $0.15 per share, or $0.60 per share on an annual basis.
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS 
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction 
with “Item 1A. Risk Factors”, “Item 6. Selected Financial Data”, our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes 
thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before 
deciding to purchase, hold or sell shares of our common stock. 
Overview
Our Company and Our Businesses
Starting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the GPU to solve some of the most complex problems in computer 
science. We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI. Fueled by the sustained demand for 
better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection 
of VR, HPC, and AI.  
Our two reportable segments - GPU and Tegra Processor - are based on a single underlying architecture. From our 
proprietary processors, we have created platforms that address four large markets where our expertise is critical: Gaming, 
Professional Visualization, Datacenter, and Automotive.
While our GPU and CUDA architecture is unified, our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce 
for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based 
visual computing users. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-
core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming 
and entertainment devices. 
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware 
in April 1998. 
Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges
Fiscal Year 2018 Summary
  Year Ended
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017 Change
($ in millions, except per share data)
Revenue $ 9,714 $ 6,910 Up 41%
Gross margin 59.9% 58.8% Up 110 bps
Operating expenses $ 2,612 $ 2,129 Up 23%
Income from operations $ 3,210 $ 1,934 Up 66%
Net income $ 3,047 $ 1,666 Up 83%
Net income per diluted share $ 4.82 $ 2.57 Up 88%
Revenue for fiscal year 2018 grew 41% to $9.71 billion, reflecting broad growth in each of our market platforms - gaming, 
professional visualization, datacenter, and automotive. 
GPU business revenue was $8.14 billion, up 40% from a year earlier, led by growth in gaming, datacenter, and professional 
visualization. Strong growth across our Pascal-based GeForce gaming GPUs was driven by growth associated with GPU 
refreshes/upgrades, new gamers, new games, eSports, and cryptocurrency mining. Revenue for datacenter, including Tesla, 
NVIDIA GRID and NVIDIA DGX, was $1.93 billion, up 133% year on year, led by strong sales of our Volta architecture, including 
V100 GPU accelerators, which began shipping in the first half of fiscal year 2018 and are available through major computer 
makers and cloud providers, new DGX systems, and design wins in HPC. Professional visualization revenue grew 12% year 
over year to $934 million, led by ultra-high-end and high-end desktop workstations, as well as unique form factors and 
emerging opportunities, including AI, deep learning, VR and rendering.

--- Page 137 ---
24
Tegra processor business revenue was $1.53 billion, up 86% from a year ago. Tegra processor business revenue includes 
SOC modules for the Nintendo Switch gaming console and development services. Also included was automotive revenue 
of $558 million, which was up 15% from a year earlier, incorporating infotainment modules, production DRIVE PX platforms, 
and development agreements for self-driving cars.
Revenue from our patent license agreement with Intel concluded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Gross margin for fiscal year 2018 was 59.9%, compared with 58.8% a year earlier, reflecting a favorable shift in mix, the 
growth of our GeForce gaming GPUs, and the growth of our GPU computing platform for cloud, deep learning, AI, and 
graphics virtualization, partially offset by the conclusion of our patent license agreement with Intel.
Operating expenses for fiscal year 2018 were $2.61 billion, up from $2.13 billion in the previous year. This reflects growth 
in employees and related costs, as well as investments in growth initiatives, including gaming, AI, and autonomous driving.  
We recorded a U.S. tax reform provisional net tax benefit of $133 million associated with the one-time transition tax on our 
historical foreign earnings and the adjustment of deferred tax balances to the lower corporate tax rate. 
Net income and net income per diluted share for fiscal year 2018 were $3.05 billion and $4.82, respectively, up 83% and 
88%, respectively, from a year earlier, fueled by strong revenue growth and improved gross and operating margins.
We returned $1.25 billion to shareholders in fiscal year 2018 through a combination of $909 million in share repurchases 
and $341 million in quarterly cash dividends. In November 2017, we declared an increase in our quarterly cash dividend 
to $0.15 per share from $0.14 per share. For fiscal year 2019, we intend to return $1.25 billion to shareholders through 
ongoing quarterly cash dividends and share repurchases. 
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $7.11 billion as of January 28, 2018, compared with $6.80 billion 
as of January 29, 2017. The increase was primarily related to the increase in operating income. 
GPU Business
During fiscal year 2018, we released many new gaming GPU products based on our new NVIDIA Pascal architecture, including 
GeForce GTX 1070 Ti, 1080 Ti, and TITAN Xp. We also announced gaming laptops using the Max-Q design, which are 3x faster 
and 3x thinner than previous-generation gaming laptops, and enhanced GeForce Experience with new tools, including 
NVIDIA Freestyle for customizing gameplay and an updated interface for the NVIDIA Ansel™ photo mode, as well as new 
titles including PlayerUnknown's Battleground and Fortnite that support NVIDIA ShadowPlay™ Highlights for capturing 
gaming achievements.
For our professional visualization platform, we opened early access to NVIDIA Holodeck, and launched the Quadro Virtual 
Data Center Workstation; introduced Project Holodeck, a photorealistic, collaborative VR environment; launched external 
GPU support for creative professionals; and released the NVIDIA Optix 5.0 and NVIDIA VRWorks 360 Video software 
development kits.
For our datacenter platform, we announced that NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPU accelerators are available through virtually every 
major computer maker and have been chosen by nearly every major cloud provider to deliver AI and HPC. We added 34 
GPU-accelerated systems to the Top 500 supercomputer list, bringing the total number of systems relying on NVIDIA GPUs 
to 87, announced partnerships to further AI in key vertical industries, and launched the NVIDIA GPU Cloud container registry 
to support scientists using HPC applications and AI researchers using desktop GPUs.
Tegra Processor Business
During fiscal year 2018, for the automotive market, we announced the NVIDIA DRIVE AI self-driving platform, which enables 
automakers and Tier-1 suppliers to accelerate production of automated and autonomous vehicles, the NVIDIA DRIVE Xavier 
autonomous machine processor to power the NVIDIA DRIVE software stack, and NVIDIA DRIVE PX Pegasus, an auto-grade 
AI computer designed to enable driverless robotaxis without steering wheels, pedals or mirrors. We also announced several 
new partnerships aimed at getting AI-powered cars, trucks and commercial vehicles on the road, including partnerships 
with Aurora, Autoliv, Baidu, Bosch, Continental, Mercedes-Benz, Uber, Volkswagen, Volvo, Toyota, and ZF.
In addition, we introduced NVIDIA Jetson TX2, a high-performance, low-power computer platform for delivering AI at the 
edge, with deep learning and computer vision capabilities for robots, drones and smart cameras, the NVIDIA Isaac robot 
simulator for training intelligent machines in simulated real-world conditions before deployment, and the NVIDIA Metropolis 
platform, used by more than 50 partners to make cities safer and smarter by applying deep learning to surveillance video 
streams.

--- Page 138 ---
25
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated 
financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United 
States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect 
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, cost of revenue, expenses and related disclosure of contingencies. On 
an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, inventories, income taxes, 
goodwill, cash equivalents and marketable securities, stock-based compensation, and litigation, investigation and 
settlement costs and other contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions 
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments 
about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation 
of our consolidated financial statements. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical 
accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The Audit Committee has reviewed 
our disclosures relating to our critical accounting policies and estimates in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Revenue Recognition
Product Revenue
We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been 
delivered, the price is fixed or determinable and collection of the related receivable is reasonably assured. 
Our customer programs primarily involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our 
products in various target markets. We account for rebates as a reduction of revenue and accrue for 100% of the potential 
rebates and do not apply a breakage factor, as we typically find that over 95% of the rebates we accrue each year are 
eventually claimed, which is substantially close to 100%, and that this percentage varies by program and by customer. We 
recognize a liability for these rebates at the later of the date at which we record the related revenue or the date at which 
we offer the rebate. Rebates typically expire six months from the date of the original sale, unless we reasonably believe 
that the customer intends to claim the rebate. Unclaimed rebates are reversed to revenue, the amount of which typically 
represents less than 0.5% of total revenue.
Our customer programs also include marketing development funds, or MDFs. MDFs represent monies paid to our partners 
that are earmarked for market segment development and expansion and are typically designed to support our partners’ 
activities while also promoting NVIDIA products. We account for MDFs as a reduction of revenue and apply a breakage factor 
to certain types of MDF program accruals for which we believe we can make a reasonable and reliable estimate of the 
amount that will ultimately be unclaimed. 
We also record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time 
revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if product returns for a particular fiscal period 
exceed historical return rates we may determine that additional sales return allowances are required to properly reflect 
our estimated exposure for product returns. 
License and Development Revenue
For license arrangements that require significant customization of our intellectual property components, we generally 
recognize the related revenue over the period that services are performed. For most license and service arrangements, 
we determine progress to completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost 
required to complete the project. We periodically evaluate the actual status of each project to ensure that the estimates to 
complete each contract remain accurate. Revenue recognized in any period is dependent on our progress toward completion 
of projects in progress. Significant management judgment and discretion are used to estimate total cost. Any changes in 
or deviations from these estimates could have a material effect on the amount of revenue we recognize in any period.
For license arrangements that do not require significant customization but where we are obligated to provide further 
deliverables over the term of the license agreement, we record revenue over the life of the license term, with consideration 
received in advance of the performance period classified as deferred revenue. 
Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-
K for additional information.

--- Page 139 ---
26
Inventories
Inventory cost is computed on an adjusted standard basis, which approximates actual cost on an average or first-in, first-
out basis. We charge cost of sales for inventory provisions to write down our inventory to the lower of cost or net realizable 
value or to completely write off obsolete or excess inventory. Most of our inventory provisions relate to the write-off of 
excess quantities of products, based on our inventory levels and future product purchase commitments compared to 
assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
Situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include changes in business and economic conditions, changes 
in market conditions, sudden and significant decreases in demand for our products, inventory obsolescence because of 
changing technology and customer requirements, failure to estimate customer demand properly, or unexpected competitive 
pricing actions by our competition. In addition, cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our 
holding excess inventory.
The overall net effect on our gross margin from inventory provisions and sales of items previously written down was 
insignificant in fiscal years 2018 and 2017 and an unfavorable impact of 1.6% in fiscal year 2016. The charges we took to 
cost of sales for inventory provisions during these fiscal years were primarily related to the write-off of excess quantities 
of products whose inventory levels were higher than our updated forecasts of future demand for those products. As a 
fabless semiconductor company, we must make commitments to purchase inventory based on forecasts of future customer 
demand. In doing so, we must account for our third-party manufacturers' lead times and constraints. We also adjust to 
other market factors, such as product offerings and pricing actions by our competitors, new product transitions, and 
macroeconomic conditions - all of which may impact demand for our products.
Refer to the Gross Profit and Gross Margin discussion below in this Management's Discussion and Analysis for further 
discussion.
Income Taxes
We recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable 
in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or liabilities, as 
appropriate, for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; and we record 
a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence 
and judgment, are not expected to be realized.
Our calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing with 
uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of deferred tax assets and liabilities may change based, 
in part, on added certainty or finality to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting standards or tax laws in the United 
States, or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize 
liabilities for potential United States and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether, and the extent 
to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded 
tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income 
tax expense in our financial statements accordingly.
As of January 28, 2018, we had a valuation allowance of $469 million related to state and certain foreign deferred tax assets 
that management determined are not likely to be realized due to projections of future taxable income and potential utilization 
limitations of tax attributes acquired as a result of stock ownership changes. To the extent realization of the deferred tax 
assets becomes more-likely-than-not, we would recognize such deferred tax asset as an income tax benefit during the 
period.
We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon 
audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to 
unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. 
The TCJA, which was enacted in December 2017, significantly changes U.S. tax law, including a reduction of the U.S. federal 
corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a requirement for companies to pay a one-time transition tax on the earnings 
of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign-source 
earnings. As a fiscal year-end taxpayer, certain provisions of the TCJA began to impact us in the fourth quarter of fiscal 
year 2018, while other provisions will impact us beginning in fiscal year 2019. Refer to Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information specific to accounting 
for income taxes and the impacts from the enactment of the TCJA.

--- Page 140 ---
27
Goodwill
Goodwill is subject to our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or earlier, if indicators of 
potential impairment exist, using either a qualitative or a quantitative assessment. Our impairment review process compares 
the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. We have identified two reporting units, 
GPU and Tegra Processor, for the purposes of completing our goodwill analysis. Goodwill assigned to the GPU and Tegra 
Processor reporting units as of January 28, 2018 was $210 million and $408 million, respectively. Determining the fair 
value of a reporting unit requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. We 
also make judgments and assumptions in allocating assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units. We base our fair 
value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain.
We use the quantitative assessment to test goodwill for impairment for each reporting unit. In applying the fair value based 
test of each reporting unit, the results from the income approach and the market approach were equally weighted. These 
valuation approaches consider a number of factors that include, but are not limited to, prospective financial information, 
growth rates, terminal or residual values, discount rates and comparable multiples from publicly traded companies in our 
industry and require us to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding industry economic factors and the future 
profitability of our business.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, we concluded that there was no impairment of our goodwill. The fair values 
of our GPU and Tegra Processor reporting units significantly exceeded their respective carrying values. As such, even the 
application of a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair value of each reporting unit would not have resulted in the fair value 
of either reporting unit being less than its carrying value.
Refer to Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-
K for additional information.
Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities
Cash equivalents consist of financial instruments which are readily convertible into cash and have original maturities of 
three months or less at the time of acquisition. Marketable securities consist primarily of highly liquid investments with 
maturities greater than three months when purchased. We measure our cash equivalents and marketable securities at fair 
value. The fair values of our financial assets are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market 
prices of similar assets from active markets. All of our available-for-sale investments are subject to a periodic impairment 
review. We record a charge to earnings when a decline in fair value is significantly below cost basis and judged to be other-
than-temporary, or have other indicators of impairments. 
We performed an impairment review of our investment portfolio as of January 28, 2018. We concluded that our investments 
were appropriately valued and that no other-than-temporary impairment charges were necessary on our portfolio of 
available-for-sale investments as of January 28, 2018.
Refer to Notes 6 and 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for additional information.
Stock-based Compensation
Our stock-based compensation expense is associated with restricted stock units, or RSUs, performance stock units that 
are based on our corporate financial performance targets, or PSUs, performance stock units that are based on market 
conditions, or market-based PSUs, and our employee stock purchase plan, or ESPP. The number of PSUs and market-based 
PSUs that will ultimately be awarded is contingent on the Company’s level of achievement compared with the corporate 
financial performance target established by our Compensation Committee in the beginning of each fiscal year.
Refer to Notes 1 and 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for additional information.
Litigation, Investigation and Settlement Costs
From time to time, we are involved in legal actions and/or investigations by regulatory bodies. We are aggressively defending 
our current litigation matters. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation or investigations, and 
we cannot be certain that these actions or other third-party claims against us will be resolved without costly litigation, fines 
and/or substantial settlement payments. If that occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could 
be materially and adversely affected. If information becomes available that causes us to determine that a loss in any of our 
pending litigation, investigations or settlements is probable, and we can reasonably estimate the loss associated with such 

--- Page 141 ---
28
events, we will record the loss in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, the actual liability in any such litigation or investigation 
may be materially different from our estimates, which could require us to record additional costs.
Results of Operations
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our Consolidated Statements of Income expressed 
as a percentage of revenue. 
   Year Ended
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
Revenue 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Cost of revenue 40.1 41.2 43.9
Gross profit 59.9 58.8 56.1
Operating expenses:      
Research and development 18.5 21.2 26.6
Sales, general and administrative 8.4 9.6 12.0
Restructuring and other charges — — 2.6
Total operating expenses 26.9 30.8 41.2
Income from operations 33.0 28.0 14.9
Interest income 0.7 0.8 0.8
Interest expense (0.6) (0.8) (0.9)
Other, net (0.2) (0.4) 0.1
Total other income (expense) (0.1) (0.4) —
Income before income tax expense 32.9 27.6 14.9
Income tax expense 1.5 3.5 2.6
Net income 31.4% 24.1% 12.3%
Revenue
Revenue by Reportable Segments
Year Ended Year Ended
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
$
Change
%
Change
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
$
Change
%
Change
($ in millions) ($ in millions)
GPU $ 8,137 $ 5,822 $ 2,315 40 % $ 5,822 $ 4,187 $ 1,635 39%
Tegra Processor 1,534 824 710 86 % 824 559 265 47%
All Other 43 264 (221) (84)% 264 264 — —%
Total $ 9,714 $ 6,910 $ 2,804 41 % $ 6,910 $ 5,010 $ 1,900 38%
GPU Business. GPU business revenue increased by 40% in fiscal year 2018 compared to fiscal year 2017 led by growth 
in gaming, datacenter and professional visualization. Revenue from sales of GeForce GPU products for gaming increased 
over 20%, reflecting continued strong demand for our Pascal-based GPU products. Datacenter revenue, including Tesla, 
GRID and DGX, increased 133%, reflecting strong demand from hyperscale and cloud customers for deep learning 
training and accelerated GPU computing as well as demand for HPC, DGX AI supercomputing and GRID virtualization 
platforms. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased by 12% due primarily to higher sales 
in both high end desktop and mobile workstation products. Revenue from GeForce GPU products for mainstream PC 
OEMs increased by over 90% due primarily to strong demand for GPU products targeted for cryptocurrency mining.
GPU business revenue increased by 39% in fiscal year 2017 compared to fiscal year 2016. This increase was primarily 
due to increased revenue from our GeForce GPU gaming and datacenter platforms. Sales of high-end GeForce GPU 
products for gaming increased over 40%, reflecting a combination of continued strength in PC gaming and strong 
demand for our recent Pascal-based GPU products. Datacenter revenue, including our Tesla, NVIDIA GRID, and DGX-1 
brands, increased by 145%, reflecting strong demand for deep learning training for AI, cloud, accelerated, and virtualized 

--- Page 142 ---
29
computing and initial DGX-1 sales. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 11% due 
primarily to higher sales in high end desktop and mobile workstation products. Revenue from GeForce GPU products 
for mainstream PC OEMs declined compared to fiscal year 2016.
Tegra Processor Business.  Tegra Processor business revenue increased by 86% in fiscal year 2018 compared to fiscal 
year 2017. This was driven by an increase of over 300% in revenue from SOC modules for gaming platforms and 
development services, and an increase of 15% in automotive revenue, primarily from infotainment modules, DRIVE PX 
platforms and development agreements for self-driving cars.
Tegra Processor business revenue increased by 47% in fiscal year 2017 compared to fiscal year 2016. This was driven 
by an increase of over 50% in sales of Tegra products and services serving automotive systems and an increase of 
almost 50% in gaming development platforms and services compared to fiscal year 2016.
All Other. Our patent license agreement with Intel concluded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. For fiscal year 
2018, we recognized related revenue of $43 million, down from $264 million for fiscal years 2017 and 2016. 
Concentration of Revenue
Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States and Other Americas accounted for 79%, 80%, and 79% of 
total revenue for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual 
countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the revenue is attributable to end customers 
in a different location.
No single customer represented more than 10% of total revenue for fiscal year 2018. In fiscal years 2017 and 2016, we had 
one customer that represented 12% and 11% of our total revenue, respectively.  
Gross Profit and Gross Margin
Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost 
of semiconductors purchased from subcontractors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, board 
and device costs, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test 
yield fallout, inventory and warranty provisions, memory and component costs, and shipping costs. Cost of revenue also 
includes development costs for license and service arrangements and stock-based compensation related to personnel 
associated with manufacturing. 
Our overall gross margin was 59.9%, 58.8%, and 56.1% for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. These increases 
were driven primarily by a favorable shift in mix, the growth of our GeForce gaming GPU revenue, and the growth of our 
datacenter revenue for cloud, deep learning, AI, and graphics virtualization. The increase in fiscal year 2018 was partially 
offset by the conclusion of our patent license agreement with Intel in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Charges to cost of sales for inventory provisions totaled $48 million, $62 million, and $112 million for fiscal years 2018, 
2017, and 2016, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $35 million, $51 
million, and $32 million for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. As a result, the overall net effect on our gross 
margin from inventory provisions and sales of items previously written down was insignificant for fiscal years 2018 and 
2017, and an unfavorable impact of 1.6% for fiscal year 2016.
A discussion of our gross margin results for each of our reportable segments is as follows: 
GPU Business. The gross margin of our GPU business increased during fiscal year 2018 when compared to fiscal year 
2017, primarily due to strong sales of our GeForce gaming GPU products and revenue growth in datacenter, including 
Tesla, GRID and DGX, for cloud, deep learning, AI, and graphics virtualization. The gross margin of our GPU business 
increased during fiscal year 2017 when compared to fiscal year 2016 primarily due to product mix resulting from 
increased sales of our gaming, datacenter, and professional visualization GPU products, as well as a continued decrease 
in sales volumes of lower margin PC OEM products. 
Tegra Processor Business. The gross margin of our Tegra Processor business increased during fiscal year 2018 when 
compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to revenue growth in gaming development platforms and automotive. The 
gross margin of our Tegra Processor business increased during fiscal year 2017 when compared to fiscal year 2016, 
primarily due to fewer inventory provisions, and the absence of the warranty charge associated with the SHIELD tablet 
product recall during fiscal year 2016.

--- Page 143 ---
30
Operating Expenses
  Year Ended Year Ended
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
$
Change
%
Change
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
$
Change
%
Change
  ($ in millions) ($ in millions)
Research and
development
expenses $ 1,797 $ 1,463 $ 334 23 % $ 1,463 $ 1,331 $ 132 10 %
% of net revenue 18.5% 21.2%     21.2% 26.6%    
Sales, general and
administrative
expenses 815 663 152 23 % 663 602 61 10 %
% of net revenue 8.4% 9.6%     9.6% 12.0%    
Restructuring and
other charges — 3 (3) (100)% 3 131 (128) (98)%
% of net revenue —% —%     —% 2.6%
Total operating
expenses $ 2,612 $ 2,129 $ 483 23 % $ 2,129 $ 2,064 $ 65 3 %
Research and Development
Research and development expenses increased by 23% in fiscal year 2018 compared to fiscal year 2017 and increased 
10% in fiscal year 2017 compared to fiscal year 2016, driven primarily by employee additions and increases in employee 
compensation and other related costs, including stock-based compensation expense.
Sales, General and Administrative
Sales, general and administrative expenses increased by 23% in fiscal year 2018 compared to fiscal year 2017 and increased 
by 10% in fiscal year 2017 compared to fiscal year 2016, driven primarily by employee additions and increases in employee 
compensation and other related costs, including stock-based compensation expense. Offsetting these increases was a 
decrease in outside professional fees of $11 million in fiscal year 2018 and $57 million in fiscal year 2017 resulting from 
the resolution of our intellectual property disputes with Samsung and Qualcomm.
Restructuring and Other Charges
In fiscal year 2016, we began to wind down our Icera modem operations. As a result, our operating expenses for fiscal year 
2016 included $131 million of restructuring and other charges. 
Total Other Income (Expense) 
Interest Income and Interest Expense
Interest income consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income was $69 
million, $54 million, and $39 million in fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. The increase in interest income was 
primarily due to higher average invested balances and higher yields on our investments from a rising interest rate 
environment.
Interest expense is primarily comprised of coupon interest and debt discount amortization related to the 2.20% Notes Due 
2021 and 3.20% Notes Due 2026 issued in September 2016, and the Convertible Notes issued in December 2013. Interest 
expense was $61 million, $58 million, and $47 million in fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016.
Other, Net
Other, net, consists primarily of realized gains and losses from the sale of marketable securities, sales or impairments of 
investments in non-affiliated companies, losses on early conversions of the Convertible Notes, and the impact of changes 
in foreign currency rates. Net other expense was $22 million and $25 million in fiscal years 2018 and 2017, respectively, 
and was insignificant in fiscal year 2016. The net other expense in fiscal years 2018 and 2017 was primarily due to losses 
on early conversions of the Convertible Notes. 

--- Page 144 ---
31
Income Taxes
The TCJA, which was enacted in December 2017, significantly changes U.S. tax law, including a reduction of the U.S. federal 
corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a requirement for companies to pay a one-time transition tax on the earnings 
of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign-source 
earnings. As a fiscal year-end taxpayer, certain provisions of the TCJA began to impact us in the fourth quarter of fiscal 
year 2018, while other provisions will impact us beginning in fiscal year 2019.
The corporate tax reduction is effective as of January 1, 2018. Since we operate on a fiscal year rather than a calendar year, 
we are subject to transitional tax rules. As a result, our fiscal year 2018 federal statutory rate is a blended rate of 33.9%. 
The change in the statutory tax rate from 35% to 33.9% for fiscal year 2018 did not have a significant impact on the effective 
tax rate.
We recognized income tax expense of $149 million, $239 million and $129 million for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, 
respectively. Our annual effective tax rate was 4.7%, 12.5%, and 17.3% for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. 
The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2018 as compared to fiscal years 2017 and 2016 was primarily due to 
the provisional impact of the recent tax law changes and the recognition of excess tax benefits related to stock-based 
compensation. The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2017 as compared to fiscal year 2016 was primarily due 
to the recognition of excess tax benefits from our adoption of a new accounting standard in fiscal year 2017 related to the 
simplification of certain aspects of stock-based compensation accounting.
Our effective tax rate  for fiscal year 2018 was lower than the blended U.S. federal statutory rate of 33.9% due primarily to 
income earned in jurisdictions, including British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong, China, Taiwan and United Kingdom, where the 
tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rates, favorable recognition of the U.S. federal research tax credit, the 
provisional impact of the recent tax law changes in 2018, and excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. 
Our effective tax rate  for fiscal years 2017 and 2016 was lower than U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% due primarily 
to income earned in jurisdictions, including British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong, China, Taiwan and United Kingdom, where 
the tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rates, favorable recognition in those fiscal years of the U.S. federal 
research tax credit, favorable discrete events primarily attributable to the tax benefit recognized upon the expiration of the 
applicable statutes of limitations, and adoption of an accounting standard related to stock-based compensation in fiscal 
year 2017.
For fiscal year 2018, we recognized provisional amounts for the tax effects of the TCJA, which were included as components 
of income tax expense and reflected in our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2018. We will continue to assess the impact of 
the recently enacted tax law on our business and our consolidated financial statements. The final impact of the TCJA 
recorded by us may vary materially from the provisional impact recorded due to a number of uncertainties and factors, 
including the need for further guidance and clarification of the new law by U.S. federal and state tax authorities and the 
need for further guidance on the income tax accounting.
In addition to the impact on fiscal year 2018, the TCJA also establishes new tax laws that will be effective for our fiscal year 
2019. While each of these new tax laws is expected to have some impact on our tax expense for fiscal year 2019 and future 
periods, we expect the provision designed to tax the low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries to have the most significant 
impact.
Because of the complexity of the new tax laws on the low-taxed income of certain foreign subsidiaries, we are continuing 
to evaluate this provision of the TCJA and the application of related accounting standards. Based on recent deliberations 
of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, we expect to be allowed to make an accounting policy choice of 
either (1) treating taxes due on future taxable income in the U.S. as a current-period expense when incurred or (2) factoring 
such amounts into our measurement of deferred taxes. Our selection of an accounting policy will depend, in part, on our 
analysis of relevant facts to determine what the expected impact would be under each method.
Refer to Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-
K for additional information.

--- Page 145 ---
32
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
  (In millions)
Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,002 $ 1,766
Marketable securities 3,106 5,032
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 7,108 $ 6,798
  Year Ended
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
  (In millions)
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,502 $ 1,672 $ 1,175
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 1,278 $ (793) $ (400)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (2,544) $ 291 $ (676)
As of January 28, 2018, we had $7.11 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $310 million 
from the end of fiscal year 2017. Our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed on our behalf by 
several financial institutions. Our portfolio managers are required to follow our investment policy, which requires the 
purchase of high grade investment securities, the diversification of asset types, and certain limits on our portfolio duration.
Cash provided by operating activities increased in fiscal year 2018 compared to fiscal year 2017 and in fiscal year 2017 
compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to higher net income and changes in working capital. 
Cash provided by investing activities increased in fiscal year 2018 compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to a reduction 
in purchases of marketable securities, partially offset by the purchase of our previously-financed Santa Clara campus 
building. Cash used in investing activities for fiscal year 2017 increased from fiscal year 2016, primarily due to higher 
purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets and lower proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable 
securities.
Cash used in financing activities increased in fiscal year 2018 compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to cash provided 
from the issuance of $2.00 billion of Notes in fiscal year 2017 as well as higher repayments of Convertible Notes, tax 
payments related to employee stock plans, share repurchases and dividend payments in fiscal year 2018. Cash provided 
by financing activities in fiscal year 2017 increased from fiscal year 2016, primarily due to the $2.00 billion of Notes issued 
in September 2016, partially offset by the repayments of Convertible Notes and $1.00 billion of capital return to shareholders 
in the form of share repurchases and dividend payments. 
Liquidity
Our primary sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, our marketable securities, and the cash generated by 
our operations. As of January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017, we had $7.11 billion and $6.80 billion, respectively, in cash, 
cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our marketable securities consist of debt securities issued by the United 
States government and its agencies, highly rated corporations and financial institutions, asset-backed issuers, mortgage-
backed securities by government-sponsored enterprises, and foreign government entities. These marketable securities 
are denominated in United States dollars. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Part II, Item 7, Quantitative 
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk in Part II, Item 7A and Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
The recent TCJA that was signed into law in December 2017 subjects U.S. companies to a one-time transition tax on certain 
earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Our reasonable estimate of the one-time transition tax that resulted from enactment of 
the TCJA is $401 million, which will be payable in eight annual installments. Accordingly, substantially all of our cash, cash 
equivalents and marketable securities held outside of the United States as of January 28, 2018 will now be available for 
use in the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal income taxes. Refer to Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.

--- Page 146 ---
33
Capital Return to Shareholders
During fiscal year 2018, we repurchased a total of 6 million shares for $909 million and paid $341 million in cash dividends 
to our shareholders. As a result, we returned $1.25 billion to shareholders during fiscal year 2018.
For fiscal year 2019, we intend to return $1.25 billion to shareholders through ongoing quarterly cash dividends and share 
repurchases. 
Our cash dividend program and the payment of future cash dividends under that program are subject to our Board's 
continuing determination that the dividend program and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests 
of our shareholders. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.
Notes Due 2021 and Notes Due 2026 
In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the Notes Due 2021 and $1.00 billion of the Notes Due 2026. The net proceeds 
from the Notes were $1.98 billion, after deducting debt discounts and issuance costs.
Convertible Notes
As of January 28, 2018, we had $15 million of Convertible Notes outstanding. Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.
Revolving Credit Facility 
In fiscal year 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement under which we may borrow, repay and re-borrow amounts from 
time to time, up to $575 million. The commitments under the Credit Agreement are available for a 5-year period ending on 
October 7, 2021. The Credit Agreement also permits us to obtain additional revolving loan commitments and/or 
commitments to issue letters of credit of up to $425 million, subject to certain conditions. As of January 28, 2018, we had 
not borrowed any amounts and were in compliance with all related covenants under the Credit Agreement.
Commercial Paper 
In December 2017, we established a commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes. Under the program, 
we can issue up to $575 million in commercial paper. As of January 28, 2018, there was no commercial paper outstanding.
Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements
We believe that our existing cash balances and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating 
and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
In January 2018, we terminated the off-balance sheet, build-to-suit operating lease financing arrangement related to our 
new Santa Clara campus building and exercised our option to purchase the property for $335 million, which was recorded 
in Property and equipment, net, in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of January 28, 2018:

--- Page 147 ---
34
Payment Due By Period
Contractual Obligations Total
Less than
1 Year 1-3 Years 4-5 Years
More than
5 Years All Other
  (In millions)
Long-term debt (1) $ 2,376 $ 54 $ 162 $ 1,064 $ 1,096 $ —
Inventory purchase obligations 1,331 1,331 — — — —
Transition tax payable (2) 401 32 64 64 241 —
Uncertain tax positions, interest and 
penalties (3) 190 — — — — 190
Operating leases 246 63 103 69 11 —
Capital purchase obligations 135 135 — — — —
1.00% Convertible Notes (4) 15 15 — — — —
Total contractual obligations $ 4,694 $ 1,630 $ 329 $ 1,197 $ 1,348 $ 190
(1) Represents the aggregate principal amount of $2.00 billion and anticipated interest payments of $376 million for the Notes. Refer to Note 11
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(2) Represents our reasonable estimate of a provisional tax payable amount of $401 million for the one-time transition tax that resulted from 
enactment of the TCJA in fiscal year 2018, which will be payable in eight annual installments.  The first installment of $32 million is classified 
as a current income tax payable. The installment amounts will be equal to 8% of the total liability, payable in fiscal years 2019 through 2023, 
15% in fiscal year 2024, 20% in fiscal year 2025 and 25% in fiscal year 2026. Refer to Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional information about the one-time transition tax.
(3) Represents unrecognized tax benefits of $190 million which consists of $175 million and the related interest and penalties of $15 million
recorded in non-current income tax payable as of January 28, 2018. We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of any potential tax liability 
or interest/penalty payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the underlying income tax positions and the timing of the effective 
settlement of such tax positions.
(4) Represents the aggregate principal amount of $15 million for the Convertible Notes. Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-
K for a discussion of adoption of new and recently issued accounting pronouncements.
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to interest rate risk related to our floating and fixed-rate investment portfolio and outstanding debt. The 
investment portfolio is managed consistent with our overall liquidity strategy in support of both working capital needs and 
strategic growth of our businesses.
As of January 28, 2018, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. According 
to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair values for these 
investments of $14 million. 
In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the Notes Due 2021 and $1.00 billion of the Notes Due 2026. In fiscal year 
2014, we issued $1.50 billion of Convertible Notes which had $15 million in principal amount outstanding as of January 28, 
2018. We carry the Notes at face value less unamortized discount on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As the Notes bear 
interest at a fixed rate, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. However, the fair 
value of the Convertible Notes changes primarily when the market price of our stock fluctuates. Refer to Note 11 of the 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional 
information. 
Foreign Exchange Rate Risk
We consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. Gains or losses from foreign currency 
remeasurement are included in other income or expense and to date have not been significant. The impact of foreign 
currency transaction gain or loss included in determining net income was not significant for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 
2016. 
Sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in United States dollars, and, 
therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Increases in the value of the United States’ dollar relative to other 

--- Page 148 ---
35
currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. Conversely, 
decreases in the value of the United States’ dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their 
prices in order to continue doing business with us. Additionally, we have international operations and incur expenditures 
in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Our operating expenses benefit from a stronger dollar and are adversely affected by 
a weaker dollar. 
We use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our 
operating expenses. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges and assess the effectiveness of the hedge 
relationships on a spot to spot basis. Gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive 
income or loss, and then reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings 
or ineffectiveness should occur.
We also use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary assets 
and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. These forward contracts were not designated for 
hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in other income or expense 
and offsets the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which is 
also recorded in other income or expense.
Refer to Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-
K for additional information. 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this Item is set forth in our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in 
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL 
DISCLOSURE
None. 
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Controls and Procedures
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Based on their evaluation as of January 28, 2018, our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer, has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act) were effective to provide reasonable assurance.
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as 
such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, 
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our 
internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2018 based on the criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated 
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our 
evaluation under the criteria set forth in Internal Control — Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our 
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of January 28, 2018.
The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2018 has been audited by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included 
herein.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during our last fiscal quarter that have materially 
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

--- Page 149 ---
36
Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls
Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure 
controls and procedures or our internal controls, will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well 
conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are 
met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of 
controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation 
of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within NVIDIA have been 
detected.
ITEM 9B.  OTHER INFORMATION
None.
PART III 
Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this report because we will file with the SEC a definitive proxy 
statement pursuant to Regulation 14A, or the 2018 Proxy Statement, no later than 120 days after the end of fiscal year 
2018, and certain information included therein is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Identification of Directors
Information regarding directors required by this item will be contained in our 2018 Proxy Statement under the caption 
“Proposal 1 - Election of Directors,” and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Identification of Executive Officers
Reference is made to the information regarding executive officers appearing under the heading “Executive Officers of the 
Registrant” in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is hereby incorporated by reference.
Identification of Audit Committee and Financial Experts
Information regarding our Audit Committee required by this item will be contained in our 2018 Proxy Statement under the 
captions “Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors” and “Information About the Board of Directors and 
Corporate Governance,” and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Material Changes to Procedures for Recommending Directors
Information regarding procedures for recommending directors required by this item will be contained in our 2018 Proxy 
Statement under the caption “Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate Governance,” and is hereby 
incorporated by reference.
Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act
Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act required by this item will be contained in our 
2018 Proxy Statement under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,” and is hereby 
incorporated by reference.
Code of Conduct
Information regarding our Code of Conduct required by this item will be contained in our 2018 Proxy Statement under the 
caption “Information About the Board of Directors and Corporate Governance - Code of Conduct,” and is hereby incorporated 
by reference. The full text of our Code of Conduct and Financial Team Code of Conduct are published on the Investor Relations 
portion of our website, under Corporate Governance, at www.nvidia.com. The contents of our website are not a part of this 
Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
Information regarding our executive compensation required by this item will be contained in our 2018 Proxy Statement 
under the captions “Executive Compensation”, “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation”, “Director 
Compensation” and “Compensation Committee Report,” and is hereby incorporated by reference.

--- Page 150 ---
37
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED 
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
Ownership of NVIDIA Securities
Information regarding ownership of NVIDIA securities required by this item will be contained in our 2018 Proxy Statement 
under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,” and is hereby incorporated by 
reference.
Equity Compensation Plan Information
Information regarding our equity compensation plans required by this item will be contained in our 2018 Proxy Statement 
under the caption "Equity Compensation Plan Information," and is hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
Information regarding related transactions and director independence required by this item will be contained in our 2018 
Proxy Statement under the captions “Review of Transactions with Related Persons” and “Information About the Board of 
Directors and Corporate Governance - Independence of the Members of the Board of Directors,” and is hereby incorporated 
by reference.
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
Information regarding accounting fees and services required by this item will be contained in our 2018 Proxy Statement 
under the caption “Fees Billed by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,” and is hereby incorporated by 
reference. 

--- Page 151 ---
38
PART IV
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
    Page
(a) 1. Consolidated Financial Statements  
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended January 28, 2018, January 29, 2017, and 
January 31, 2016
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended January 28, 2018, January 
29, 2017, and January 31, 2016
  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017
 
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended January 28, 2018, January 
29, 2017, and January 31, 2016
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended January 28, 2018, January 29, 2017, 
and January 31, 2016 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
2. Financial Statement Schedule  
 
Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended January 28, 2018, January 29, 
2017, and January 31, 2016
3. Exhibits  
  The exhibits listed in the accompanying index to exhibits are filed or incorporated by reference as a 
part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
39
41
42
43
44
45
47
76
77

--- Page 152 ---
39
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of NVIDIA Corporation:
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries as of January 
28, 2018 and January 29, 2017, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders’ 
equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 28, 2018, including the related notes and 
financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated 
financial statements”). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2018, 
based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of the Company as of January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017, and the results of their operations and their cash 
flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 28, 2018 in conformity with accounting principles generally 
accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective 
internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated 
Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.
Basis for Opinions
The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal 
control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, 
included in Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our 
responsibility is to express opinions on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal 
control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ("PCAOB") and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in 
accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform 
the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material 
misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained 
in all material respects. 
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that 
respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and 
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used 
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial 
statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control 
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and 
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other 
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for 
our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, 
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management 
and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of 
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial 
statements.

--- Page 153 ---
40
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Jose, California
February 28, 2018
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2004. 

--- Page 154 ---
41
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In millions, except per share data)
Year Ended
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
Revenue $ 9,714 $ 6,910 $ 5,010
Cost of revenue 3,892 2,847 2,199
Gross profit 5,822 4,063 2,811
Operating expenses      
Research and development 1,797 1,463 1,331
Sales, general and administrative 815 663 602
Restructuring and other charges — 3 131
Total operating expenses 2,612 2,129 2,064
Income from operations 3,210 1,934 747
Interest income 69 54 39
Interest expense (61) (58) (47)
Other, net (22) (25) 4
Total other income (expense) (14) (29) (4)
Income before income tax 3,196 1,905 743
Income tax expense 149 239 129
Net income $ 3,047 $ 1,666 $ 614
Net income per share:
Basic $ 5.09 $ 3.08 $ 1.13
Diluted $ 4.82 $ 2.57 $ 1.08
Weighted average shares used in per share computation:
Basic 599 541 543
Diluted 632 649 569
Cash dividends declared and paid per common share $ 0.570 $ 0.485 $ 0.395
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

--- Page 155 ---
42
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In millions)
Year Ended
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
Net income $ 3,047 $ 1,666 $ 614
Other comprehensive loss, net of tax:
Available-for-sale securities:
Net unrealized loss (5) (17) (6)
Reclassification adjustments for net realized gain (loss) included in
net income 1 1 (2)
Net change in unrealized loss (4) (16) (8)
Cash flow hedges:
Net unrealized gain (loss) (1) 2 (4)
Reclassification adjustments for net realized gain (loss) included in
net income 3 2 —
Net change in unrealized gain (loss) 2 4 (4)
Other comprehensive loss, net of tax (2) (12) (12)
Total comprehensive income $ 3,045 $ 1,654 $ 602
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

--- Page 156 ---
43
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, except par value)
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
ASSETS    
Current assets:    
Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,002 $ 1,766
Marketable securities 3,106 5,032
Accounts receivable, less allowances of $13 as of January 28, 2018 and January
29, 2017 1,265 826
Inventories 796 794
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 86 118
Total current assets 9,255 8,536
Property and equipment, net 997 521
Goodwill 618 618
Intangible assets, net 52 104
Other assets 319 62
Total assets $ 11,241 $ 9,841
LIABILITIES, CONVERTIBLE DEBT CONVERSION OBLIGATION AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:    
Accounts payable $ 596 $ 485
Accrued and other current liabilities 542 507
Convertible short-term debt 15 796
Total current liabilities 1,153 1,788
Long-term debt 1,985 1,983
Other long-term liabilities 632 277
Total liabilities 3,770 4,048
Commitments and contingencies - see Note 12
Convertible debt conversion obligation — 31
Shareholders’ equity:    
Preferred stock, $.001 par value; 2 shares authorized; none issued — —
Common stock, $.001 par value; 2,000 shares authorized; 932 shares issued and
606 outstanding as of January 28, 2018; 868 shares issued and 585 outstanding
as of January 29, 2017 1 1
Additional paid-in capital 5,351 4,708
Treasury stock, at cost (326 shares in 2018 and 283 shares in 2017) (6,650) (5,039)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (18) (16)
Retained earnings 8,787 6,108
Total shareholders' equity 7,471 5,762
Total liabilities, convertible debt conversion obligation and shareholders' equity $ 11,241 $ 9,841
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

--- Page 157 ---
44
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Common Stock
Outstanding Additional Treasury
Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Retained Total Shareholders'
(In millions, except per share data) Shares Amount  Paid-in Capital  Stock  Income (Loss)  Earnings  Equity
Balances, January 25, 2015 545 $ 1 $ 3,855 $ (3,395) $ 8 $ 3,949 $ 4,418
Other comprehensive loss — — — — (12) — (12)
Net income — — — — — 614 614
Issuance of common stock from stock plans  22 — 186 — — — 186
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units (3) — — (66) — — (66)
Share repurchase (25) — — (587) — — (587)
Cash dividends declared and paid ($0.395 per common share) — — — — — (213) (213)
Tax benefit from stock-based compensation   — — 10 — — — 10
Stock-based compensation — — 206 — — — 206
Reclassification of convertible debt conversion obligation — — (87) — — — (87)
Balances, January 31, 2016 539 1 4,170 (4,048) (4) 4,350 4,469
Retained earnings adjustment due to adoption of an accounting standard related to 
stock-based compensation — — — — — 353 353
Other comprehensive loss — — — — (12) — (12)
Net income — — — — — 1,666 1,666
Issuance of common stock in exchange for warrants 44 — (1) — — — (1)
Convertible debt conversion 23 — (6) — — — (6)
Issuance of common stock from stock plans  20 — 167 — — — 167
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units (3) — — (177) — — (177)
Share repurchase (15) — — (739) — — (739)
Exercise of convertible note hedges (23) — 75 (75) — — —
Cash dividends declared and paid ($0.485 per common share) — — — — — (261) (261)
Stock-based compensation — — 248 — — — 248
Reclassification of convertible debt conversion obligation — — 55 — — — 55
Balances, January 29, 2017 585 1 4,708 (5,039) (16) 6,108 5,762
Retained earnings adjustment due to adoption of an accounting standard related to 
income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset — — — — — (27) (27)
Other comprehensive loss — — — — (2) — (2)
Net income — — — — — 3,047 3,047
Issuance of common stock in exchange for warrants 13 — — — — — —
Convertible debt conversion 33 — (7) — — — (7)
Issuance of common stock from stock plans  18 — 138 — — — 138
Tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock units (4) — — (612) — — (612)
Share repurchase (6) — — (909) — — (909)
Exercise of convertible note hedges (33) — 90 (90) — — —
Cash dividends declared and paid ($0.570 per common share) — — — — — (341) (341)
Stock-based compensation — — 391 — — — 391
Reclassification of convertible debt conversion obligation — — 31 — — — 31
Balances, January 28, 2018 606 $ 1 $ 5,351 $ (6,650) $ (18) $ 8,787 $ 7,471
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

--- Page 158 ---
45
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In millions)
Year Ended
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
Cash flows from operating activities:    
Net income $ 3,047 $ 1,666 $ 614
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:    
Stock-based compensation expense 391 247 204
Depreciation and amortization 199 187 197
Loss on early debt conversions 19 21 —
Amortization of debt discount 3 25 29
Deferred income taxes (359) 197 134
Net gain on sale and disposal of long-lived assets and investments (1) (3) (6)
Restructuring and other charges — — 45
Tax benefit from stock-based compensation — — (10)
Other 18 11 19
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:    
Accounts receivable (440) (321) (32)
Inventories — (375) 66
Prepaid expenses and other assets 21 (18) (16)
Accounts payable 90 184 (11)
Accrued and other current liabilities 33 (135) 39
Other long-term liabilities 481 (14) (97)
Net cash provided by operating activities 3,502 1,672 1,175
Cash flows from investing activities:    
Proceeds from sales of marketable securities 863 1,546 2,102
Proceeds from maturities of marketable securities 1,078 969 1,036
Proceeds from sale of long-lived assets and investments 2 7 7
Purchases of marketable securities (36) (3,134) (3,477)
Purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets (593) (176) (86)
Reimbursement of building development costs from banks — — 24
Investment in non-affiliates (36) (5) (6)
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 1,278 (793) (400)
Cash flows from financing activities:    
Proceeds from issuance of debt — 1,988 —
Payments related to repurchases of common stock (909) (739) (587)
Repayment of Convertible Notes (812) (673) —
Dividends paid (341) (261) (213)
Proceeds related to employee stock plans 139 167 186
Payments related to tax on restricted stock units (612) (176) (66)
Payments for debt issuance costs — (8) —
Tax benefit from stock-based compensation — — 10
Other (9) (7) (6)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (2,544) 291 (676)
Change in cash and cash equivalents 2,236 1,170 99
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 1,766 596 497
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 4,002 $ 1,766 $ 596

--- Page 159 ---
46
  Year Ended
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
Cash paid for income taxes, net $ 22 $ 14 $ 14
Cash paid for interest $ 55 $ 13 $ 17
Non-cash investing and financing activity:    
Assets acquired by assuming related liabilities $ 36 $ 16 $ 19
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

--- Page 160 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
47
Note 1 - Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Our Company
Starting with a focus on PC graphics, NVIDIA invented the GPU to solve some of the most complex problems in computer 
science. We have extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of artificial intelligence. 
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware 
in April 1998. 
All references to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries, except where 
it is made clear that the term means only the parent company.
Fiscal Year
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January. Fiscal years 2018 and 2017 are both 52-week 
years and fiscal year 2016 was a 53-week year.
Reclassifications
Certain prior fiscal year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current fiscal year presentation.
Principles of Consolidation
Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVIDIA Corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiaries. All 
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities 
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. 
Actual results could differ materially from our estimates. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those 
related to revenue recognition, cash equivalents and marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventories, income taxes, 
goodwill, stock-based compensation, litigation, investigation and settlement costs, restructuring and other charges, and 
other contingencies. These estimates are based on historical facts and various other assumptions that we believe are 
reasonable.
Revenue Recognition
Product Revenue
We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been 
delivered, the price is fixed or determinable and collection of the related receivable is reasonably assured. For most sales, 
we use a binding purchase order and in certain cases we use a contractual agreement as evidence of an arrangement. We 
consider delivery to occur upon shipment provided title and risk of loss have passed to the customer. At the point of sale, 
we assess whether the arrangement fee is fixed or determinable and whether collection is reasonably assured. If we 
determine that collection of a fee is not reasonably assured, we defer the fee and recognize revenue at the time collection 
becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of payment.
Our customer programs primarily involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our 
products in various target markets. We account for rebates as a reduction of revenue and accrue for 100% of the potential 
rebates and do not apply a breakage factor, as we typically find that over 95% of the rebates we accrue each year are 
eventually claimed, which is substantially close to 100%, and that this percentage varies by program and by customer. We 
recognize a liability for these rebates at the later of the date at which we record the related revenue or the date at which 
we offer the rebate. Rebates typically expire six months from the date of the original sale, unless we reasonably believe 
that the customer intends to claim the rebate. Unclaimed rebates are reversed to revenue, the amount of which typically 
represents less than 0.5% of total revenue. 
Our customer programs also include marketing development funds, or MDFs. MDFs represent monies paid to our partners 
that are earmarked for market segment development and expansion and are typically designed to support our partners’ 

--- Page 161 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
48
activities while also promoting NVIDIA products. We account for MDFs as a reduction of revenue and apply a breakage factor 
to certain types of MDF program accruals for which we believe we can make a reasonable and reliable estimate of the 
amount that will ultimately be unclaimed. 
We also record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time 
revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if product returns for a particular fiscal period 
exceed historical return rates we may determine that additional sales return allowances are required to properly reflect 
our estimated exposure for product returns. 
License and Development Revenue
For license arrangements that require significant customization of our intellectual property components, we generally 
recognize the related revenue over the period that services are performed. For most license and service arrangements, we 
determine progress to completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required 
to complete the project. A provision for estimated losses on contracts is made in the period in which the loss becomes 
probable and can be reasonably estimated. Costs incurred in advance of revenue recognized are recorded as deferred costs 
on uncompleted contracts. If the amount billed exceeds the amount of revenue recognized, the excess amount is recorded 
as deferred revenue.
For license arrangements that do not require significant customization but where we are obligated to provide further 
deliverables over the term of the license agreement, we record revenue over the life of the license term, with consideration 
received in advance of the performance period classified as deferred revenue. 
Royalty revenue is recognized related to the distribution or sale of products that use our technologies under license 
agreements with third parties.  We recognize royalty revenue upon receipt of a confirmation of earned royalties and when 
collectability is reasonably assured from the applicable licensee.
Advertising Expenses
We expense advertising costs in the period in which they are incurred. Advertising expenses for fiscal years 2018, 2017, 
and 2016 were $25 million, $17 million, and $30 million, respectively. 
Rent Expense
We recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease period and accrue for rent expense incurred, but not paid.
Product Warranties
We generally offer a limited warranty to end-users that ranges from one to three years for products in order to repair or 
replace products for any manufacturing defects or hardware component failures. Cost of revenue includes the estimated 
cost of product warranties that are calculated at the point of revenue recognition. Under limited circumstances, we may 
offer an extended limited warranty to customers for certain products. We also accrue for known warranty and indemnification 
issues if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated.
Stock-based Compensation
We use the closing trading price of our common stock on the date of grant, minus a dividend yield discount, as the fair value 
of awards of restricted stock units, or RSUs, and performance stock units that are based on our corporate financial 
performance targets, or PSUs. We use a Monte Carlo simulation on the date of grant to estimate the fair value of performance 
stock units that are based on market conditions, or market-based PSUs. The compensation expense for RSUs and market-
based PSUs is recognized using a straight-line attribution method over the requisite employee service period while 
compensation expense for PSUs is recognized using an accelerated amortization model. We estimate the fair value of 
shares to be issued under our employee stock purchase plan, or ESPP, using the Black-Scholes model at the commencement 
of an offering period in March and September of each year. Stock-based compensation for our ESPP is expensed using an 
accelerated amortization model. Additionally, we estimate forfeitures annually based on historical experience and revise 
the estimates of forfeiture in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. If factors change, the 
compensation expense that we record under these accounting standards may differ significantly from what we have 
recorded in the current period.

--- Page 162 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
49
Restructuring and Other Charges 
Our restructuring and other charges include employee severance and related costs, the write-down of assets, and other 
exit costs. The severance and related costs include one-time termination benefits as well as certain statutory termination 
benefits or employee terminations under ongoing benefit arrangements. One-time termination benefits are recognized as 
a liability at estimated fair value when the approved plan of termination has been communicated to employees, unless 
employees must provide future service, in which case the benefits are recognized ratably over the future service period. 
Ongoing termination benefits arrangements are recognized as a liability at estimated fair value when the amount of such 
benefits becomes estimable and payment is probable. Any contract termination costs are recognized at estimated fair value 
when we terminate the contract in accordance with the contract terms. Other associated costs are recognized in the period 
the liability is incurred. Our operating expenses for fiscal year 2016 included $131 million of restructuring and other charges 
related to the wind-down of our Icera operations, which was comprised mainly of employee severance, facilities, and related 
costs. Restructuring charges were not significant for fiscal years 2018 and 2017.
Litigation, Investigation and Settlement Costs
From time to time, we are involved in legal actions and/or investigations by regulatory bodies. We are aggressively defending 
our current litigation matters. However, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation or investigation, and 
we cannot be certain that these actions or other third-party claims against us will be resolved without litigation, fines and/
or substantial settlement payments. If that occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be 
materially and adversely affected. If information becomes available that causes us to determine that a loss in any of our 
pending litigation, investigations or settlements is probable, and we can reasonably estimate the loss associated with such 
events, we will record the loss in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, the actual liability in any such litigation or investigation 
may be materially different from our estimates, which could require us to record additional costs. 
Foreign Currency Remeasurement
We use the United States dollar as our functional currency for all of our subsidiaries. Foreign currency monetary assets 
and liabilities are remeasured into United States dollars at end-of-period exchange rates. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
such as property and equipment, and equity are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are 
remeasured at average exchange rates in effect during each period, except for those expenses related to the previously 
noted balance sheet amounts, which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Gains or losses from foreign currency 
remeasurement are included in other income or expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income and to date have not 
been significant.
Income Taxes
We recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable 
in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or liabilities, as 
appropriate, for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; and we record 
a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence 
and judgment, are not expected to be realized.
Our calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing with 
uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of deferred tax assets and liabilities may change based, 
in part, on added certainty or finality to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting standards or tax laws in the United 
States, or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize 
liabilities for potential United States and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether, and the extent 
to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded 
tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income 
tax expense in our financial statements accordingly.
As of January 28, 2018, we had a valuation allowance of $469 million related to state and certain foreign deferred tax assets 
that management determined are not likely to be realized due to projections of future taxable income and potential utilization 
limitations of tax attributes acquired as a result of stock ownership changes. To the extent realization of the deferred tax 
assets becomes more-likely-than-not, we would recognize such deferred tax asset as an income tax benefit during the 
period.

--- Page 163 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
50
We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon 
audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to 
unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. 
In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, was enacted into law. The TCJA significantly changes U.S. tax law 
including a reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a requirement for companies to pay 
a one-time transition tax on the earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation 
of new taxes on certain foreign-source earnings. As a fiscal year-end taxpayer, certain provisions of the TCJA began to 
impact us in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, while other provisions will impact us beginning in fiscal year 2019. Refer 
to Note 13 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Comprehensive Income 
Comprehensive income consists of net income and other comprehensive income or loss. Other comprehensive income or 
loss components include unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities and unrealized gains or losses on cash 
flow hedges.
Net Income Per Share
Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the 
period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted average number of common and potentially dilutive 
shares outstanding during the period, using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the effect of stock 
options outstanding is not included in the computation of diluted net income per share for periods when their effect is anti-
dilutive. Additionally, we issued convertible notes with a net settlement feature that requires us, upon conversion, to settle 
the principal amount of debt for cash and the conversion premium for cash or shares of our common stock. Our convertible 
notes, note hedges, and related warrants contain various conversion features, which are further described in Note 11 of 
these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The potentially dilutive shares resulting from the convertible notes 
and warrants under the treasury stock method will be included in the calculation of diluted income per share when their 
inclusion is dilutive. However, unless actually exercised, the note hedges were not included in the calculation of diluted net 
income per share, as their pre-exercised effect would be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
We consider all highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash and have an original maturity of three months 
or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents. As of January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017, our cash and cash 
equivalents were $4.00 billion and $1.77 billion, respectively, including $3.79 billion and $321 million, respectively, invested 
in money market funds.
Marketable Securities
Marketable securities consist primarily of highly liquid investments with maturities of greater than three months when 
purchased. We generally classify our marketable securities at the date of acquisition as available-for-sale. These securities 
are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income 
or loss, a component of shareholders’ equity, net of tax. The fair value of interest-bearing securities includes accrued interest. 
Any unrealized losses which are considered to be other-than-temporary impairments are recorded in the other income or 
expense, net, section of our Consolidated Statements of Income. Realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable 
securities are determined using the specific-identification method and recorded in the other income or expense, net, section 
of our Consolidated Statements of Income.
All of our available-for-sale investments are subject to a periodic impairment review. We record a charge to earnings when 
a decline in fair value is significantly below cost basis and judged to be other-than-temporary, or have other indicators of 
impairments. If the fair value of an available-for-sale debt instrument is less than its amortized cost basis, an other-than-
temporary impairment is triggered in circumstances where (1) we intend to sell the instrument, (2) it is more likely than 
not that we will be required to sell the instrument before recovery of its amortized cost basis, or (3) a credit loss exists 
where we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the instrument. In these situations, we recognize an 
other-than-temporary impairment in earnings equal to the entire difference between the debt instruments’ amortized cost 
basis and its fair value. For available-for-sale debt instruments that are considered other-than-temporarily impaired due 
to the existence of a credit loss, if we do not intend to sell and it is not more likely than not that we will not be required to 
sell the instrument before recovery of its remaining amortized cost basis (amortized cost basis less any current-period 

--- Page 164 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
51
credit loss), we separate the amount of the impairment into the amount that is credit related and the amount due to all 
other factors. The credit loss component is recognized in earnings while loss related to all other factors is recorded in 
accumulated other comprehensive income or loss.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying value of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate their fair 
values due to their relatively short maturities as of January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017. Marketable securities are 
comprised of available-for-sale securities that are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains or losses included 
in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, a component of shareholders’ equity, net of tax. Fair value of the 
marketable securities is determined based on quoted market prices. Derivative instruments are recognized as either assets 
or liabilities and are measured at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the 
intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges, 
the gains or losses are recognized in earnings in the periods of change together with the offsetting losses or gains on the 
hedged items attributed to the risk being hedged. For derivative instruments designated as cash-flow hedges, the effective 
portion of the gains or losses on the derivatives is initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income or loss 
and is subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged exposure is recognized in earnings. 
Concentration of Credit Risk
Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents, 
marketable securities, accounts receivable, note hedge and interest rate swap. Our investment policy requires the purchase 
of high grade investment securities, the diversification of asset type and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration. 
All marketable securities are held in our name, managed by several investment managers and held by one major financial 
institution under a custodial arrangement. Accounts receivable from significant customers, those representing 10% or more 
of total accounts receivable, aggregated approximately 28% of our accounts receivable balance from two customers as of 
January 28, 2018 and 29% of our account receivable balance from two customers as of January 29, 2017. We perform 
ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition and maintain an allowance for potential credit losses. This 
allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. 
Our overall estimated exposure excludes amounts covered by credit insurance and letters of credit.
Accounts Receivable
We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers 
to make required payments. We determine this allowance by identifying amounts for specific customer issues as well as 
amounts based on overall estimated exposure. Factors impacting the allowance include the level of gross receivables, the 
financial condition of our customers and the extent to which balances are covered by credit insurance or letters of credit.
Inventories
Inventory cost is computed on an adjusted standard basis, which approximates actual cost on an average or first-in, first-
out basis. Inventory costs consist primarily of the cost of semiconductors purchased from subcontractors, including wafer 
fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with 
such purchases, final test yield fallout, and shipping costs, as well as the cost of purchased memory products and other 
component parts. We charge cost of sales for inventory provisions to write down our inventory to the lower of cost or net 
realizable value or to completely write off obsolete or excess inventory. Most of our inventory provisions relate to the write-
off of excess quantities of products, based on our inventory levels and future product purchase commitments compared to 
assumptions about future demand and market conditions. Once inventory has been written-off or written-down, it creates 
a new cost basis for the inventory that is not subsequently written-up. 
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation of property and equipment is computed using the straight-line 
method based on the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally three to five years. Once an asset is identified for 
retirement or disposition, the related cost and accumulated depreciation or amortization are removed, and a gain or loss 
is recorded. The estimated useful lives of our buildings are up to thirty years. Depreciation expense includes the amortization 
of assets recorded under capital leases. Leasehold improvements and assets recorded under capital leases are amortized 
over the shorter of the expected lease term or the estimated useful life of the asset.

--- Page 165 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
52
Goodwill
Goodwill is subject to our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or earlier if indicators of 
potential impairment exist.  For the purposes of completing our impairment test, we perform either a qualitative or a 
quantitative analysis on a reporting unit basis. 
For those reporting units where a significant change or event has occurred, where potential impairment indicators exist, 
or for which we have not performed a quantitative assessment recently, we perform a quantitative assessment to testing 
goodwill for impairment. It tests for possible impairment by applying a fair value-based test by weighting the results from 
the income approach and the market approach. Refer to Note 4 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for additional information. 
Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets
Intangible assets primarily represent rights acquired under technology licenses, patents, acquired intellectual property, 
trademarks and customer relationships and are subject to an annual impairment test. We currently amortize our intangible 
assets with definitive lives over periods ranging from three to ten years using a method that reflects the pattern in which 
the economic benefits of the intangible asset are consumed or otherwise used up or, if that pattern cannot be reliably 
determined, using a straight-line amortization method. 
Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for 
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group 
may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount 
of an asset or asset group to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, or asset 
group. If the carrying amount of an asset or asset group exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is 
recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset or asset group exceeds the estimated fair value of 
the asset or asset group. Fair value is determined based on the estimated discounted future cash flows expected to be 
generated by the asset or asset group. Assets and liabilities to be disposed of would be separately presented in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet and the assets would be reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs 
to sell, and would no longer be depreciated.
Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
In October 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued an accounting standards update which requires 
the recognition of income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset, other than inventory, when the transfer 
occurs. We elected to early adopt this new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, which required us to reflect any 
adjustments as of January 30, 2017. Upon adoption of this guidance, we recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the 
first day of fiscal year 2018 to decrease retained earnings by $28 million, with a corresponding decrease to prepaid taxes 
that had not been previously recognized in income tax expense.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that simplifies the test for goodwill impairment. The 
update eliminates the second step in the goodwill impairment test that requires an entity to determine the implied fair 
value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. Instead, an entity should recognize an impairment loss if the carrying value of the net 
assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, with the impairment loss not to exceed 
the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. We adopted this guidance in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018 
and applied it prospectively, as permitted by the standard. The adoption of this accounting guidance did not have a material 
impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted 
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to amend certain aspects of recognition, measurement, 
presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. Most prominent among the amendments is the requirement for 
changes in the fair value of our equity investments to be recognized through net income rather than other comprehensive 
income. The update will be effective for us beginning in our first quarter of fiscal year 2019. We anticipate the adoption of 
this accounting standard to increase the volatility of our other income or expense, net, due to the remeasurement of certain 
of our equity securities, primarily our investments in non-affiliates, for fair value changes. 

--- Page 166 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
53
In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update regarding the accounting for leases by which we will 
begin recognizing lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for leases with a lease term of more than 12 months. 
The update will require additional disclosures regarding key information about leasing arrangements. Under existing 
guidance, operating leases are not recorded as lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. The update will be 
effective for us beginning in our first quarter of fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating 
the impact of the adoption of this accounting guidance on our consolidated financial statements. However, we expect the 
adoption of this accounting guidance to result in an increase in lease assets and a corresponding increase in lease liabilities 
on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The FASB issued an accounting standards update that creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all 
companies, in all industries. We expect to adopt this guidance beginning in our first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the 
modified retrospective approach. We have made progress in, and continue to assess changes in policies, processes, systems 
and controls necessary to meet the additional requirements of the guidance. While we are still finalizing our analysis to 
quantify the adoption impact of the provisions of the new revenue standard, we do not expect it to have a material impact 
on our consolidated financial statements. However, we do expect to provide additional disclosure under this guidance, 
including more information regarding estimates and judgments, practical expedients used, contract balances and 
performance obligations. 
Note 2 - Stock-Based Compensation
Our stock-based compensation expense is associated with stock options, restricted stock units, or RSUs, performance stock 
units that are based on our corporate financial performance targets, or PSUs, performance stock units that are based on 
market conditions, or market-based PSUs, and our employee stock purchase plan, or ESPP.
Our Consolidated Statements of Income include stock-based compensation expense, net of amounts capitalized as 
inventory, as follows:
  Year Ended
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
  (In millions)
Cost of revenue $ 21 $ 15 $ 15
Research and development 219 134 115
Sales, general and administrative 151 98 74
Total $ 391 $ 247 $ 204
Stock-based compensation capitalized in inventories was not significant during fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016. 
The following is a summary of equity awards granted under our equity incentive plans:
Year Ended
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
(In millions, except per share data)
RSUs, PSUs and Market-based PSUs
Awards granted 6 12 13
Estimated total grant-date fair value $ 929 $ 591 $ 296
Weighted average grant-date fair value (per share) $ 145.91 $ 50.57 $ 22.01
ESPP
Shares purchased 5 4 6
Weighted average price (per share) $ 21.24 $ 18.51 $ 13.67
Weighted average grant-date fair value (per share) $ 7.12 $ 5.80 $ 4.53

--- Page 167 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
54
Beginning fiscal year 2015, we shifted away from granting stock options and toward granting RSUs, PSUs and market-
based PSUs to reflect changing market trends for equity incentives at our peer companies. As of January 28, 2018, there 
were 5 million stock options outstanding and the amount of unvested stock options was not significant. The number of 
PSUs that will ultimately vest is contingent on the Company’s level of achievement versus the corporate financial 
performance target established by our Compensation Committee in the beginning of each fiscal year. 
Of the total fair value of equity awards, we estimated that the stock-based compensation expense related to the equity 
awards that are not expected to vest for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016 was $156 million, $98 million, and $46 million, 
respectively. 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
(In millions)
Aggregate unearned stock-based compensation expense $ 1,091 $ 627
Estimated weighted average remaining amortization period (In years)
RSUs, PSUs and market-based PSUs 2.3 2.6
ESPP 0.7 0.6
The fair value of shares issued under our ESPP have been estimated with the following assumptions:
  Year Ended
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
(Using the Black-Scholes model)
ESPP
Weighted average expected life (in years) 0.5-2.0 0.5-2.0 0.5-2.0
Risk-free interest rate 0.8%-1.4% 0.5%-0.9% 0.1%-0.7%
Volatility 40%-54% 30%-39% 24%-34%
Dividend yield 0.3%-0.5% 0.7%-1.4% 1.5%-1.8%
For ESPP shares, the expected term represents the average term from the first day of the offering period to the purchase 
date. The risk-free interest rate assumption used to value ESPP shares is based upon observed interest rates on Treasury 
bills appropriate for the expected term. Our expected stock price volatility assumption for ESPP is estimated using historical 
volatility. For awards granted, we use the dividend yield at grant date. Our RSU, PSU, and market-based PSU awards are 
not eligible for cash dividends prior to vesting; therefore, the fair values of RSUs, PSUs, and market-based PSUs are 
discounted for the dividend yield.
Additionally, for employee stock option, RSU, PSU, and market-based PSU awards, we estimate forfeitures annually and 
revise the estimates of forfeiture in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures are 
estimated based on historical experience.
Equity Incentive Program
We grant or have granted stock options, RSUs, PSUs, market-based PSUs, and stock purchase rights under the following 
equity incentive plans.
Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan
In 2007, our shareholders approved the NVIDIA Corporation 2007 Equity Incentive Plan, as most recently amended and 
restated, the 2007 Plan.
The 2007 Plan authorizes the issuance of incentive stock options, non-statutory stock options, restricted stock, restricted 
stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance stock awards, performance cash awards, and other stock-based awards 
to employees, directors and consultants. Only our employees may receive incentive stock options. Up to 207 million shares 
of our common stock may be issued pursuant to stock awards granted under the 2007 Plan. Currently, we grant RSUs, 

--- Page 168 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
55
PSUs and market-based PSUs under the 2007 Plan, under which, as of January 28, 2018, there were 16 million shares 
available for future issuance.
Stock options previously granted to employees, subject to certain exceptions, vest over a four year period, subject to continued 
service, with 25% vesting on the anniversary of the hire date in the case of new hires or the anniversary of the date of grant 
in the case of grants to existing employees and 6.25% vesting quarterly thereafter. These stock options generally expire 
ten years from the date of grant.
Subject to certain exceptions, RSUs and PSUs granted to employees vest over a four year period, subject to continued 
service, with 25% vesting on a pre-determined date that is close to the anniversary of the date of grant and (i) for grants 
made prior to May 18, 2016, 12.5% vesting semi-annually thereafter, and (ii) for grants made on or after May 18, 2016, 6.25% 
vesting quarterly thereafter. Market-based PSUs vest 100% on approximately the three year anniversary of the date of 
grant. However, the number of shares subject to both PSUs and market-based PSUs that are eligible to vest is generally 
determined by the Compensation Committee based on achievement of pre-determined criteria.
Unless terminated sooner, the 2007 Plan is scheduled to terminate on March 21, 2022. Our Board may suspend or terminate 
the 2007 Plan at any time. No awards may be granted under the 2007 Plan while the 2007 Plan is suspended or after it is 
terminated. The Board may also amend the 2007 Plan at any time. However, if legal, regulatory or listing requirements 
require shareholder approval, the amendment will not go into effect until the shareholders have approved the amendment.
Amended and Restated 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
In 2012, our shareholders approved the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as most recently amended and restated, the 
2012 Plan, as the successor to the 1998 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Up to 75 million shares of our common stock may be issued pursuant to purchases under the 2012 Plan. As of January 28, 
2018, we had issued 28 million shares and reserved 47 million shares for future issuance under the 2012 Plan.
The 2012 Plan is intended to qualify as an “employee stock purchase plan” under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. 
Under the current offerings adopted pursuant to the 2012 Plan, each offering period is approximately 24 months, which is 
generally divided into four purchase periods of six months.
Employees are eligible to participate if they are employed by us or an affiliate of us as designated by the Board. Employees 
who participate in an offering may have up to 10% of their earnings withheld up to certain limitations and applied on specified 
dates determined by the Board to the purchase of shares of common stock. The Board may increase this percentage at its 
discretion, up to 15%. The price of common stock purchased under our 2012 Plan will be equal to 85% of the lower of the 
fair market value of the common stock on the commencement date of each offering period and the fair market value on 
each purchase date within the offering. Employees may end their participation in the 2012 Plan at any time during the 
offering period, and participation ends automatically on termination of employment with us. In each case, the employee’s 
contributions are refunded.

--- Page 169 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
56
The following is a summary of our equity award transactions under our equity incentive plans: 
RSUs, PSUs and Market-based PSUs Outstanding
  Number of Shares
Weighted Average Grant-
Date Fair Value
(In millions, except years and per share data)
Balances, January 29, 2017 27 $ 32.84
Granted (1)(2) 6 $ 145.91
Vested restricted stock (11) $ 28.80
Canceled and forfeited — $ —
Balances, January 28, 2018 22 $ 66.72
Vested and expected to vest after January 28, 2018 18 $ 66.43
(1) Includes PSUs that will be issued and eligible to vest based on the corporate financial performance maximum target level achieved for fiscal year 
2018. 
(2) Includes market-based PSUs that will be issued and eligible to vest if the maximum target for total shareholder return, or TSR, over the 3-year 
measurement period is achieved. Depending on the ranking of our TSR compared to the respective TSRs of the companies comprising the Standard 
& Poor’s 500 Index during that period, the market-based PSUs issued could be up to 0.1 million shares.
As of January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017, there were 16 million and 22 million shares, respectively, of common stock 
reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $318 million, $246 million, and $75 million for fiscal years 2018, 2017, 
and 2016, respectively. Upon exercise of an option, we issue new shares of stock. The total fair value of options vested was 
$1 million, $8 million, and $17 million for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. 
Note 3 - Net Income Per Share
The following is a reconciliation of the denominator of the basic and diluted net income per share computations for the 
periods presented:
  Year Ended
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
  (In millions, except per share data)
Numerator:      
Net income $ 3,047 $ 1,666 $ 614
Denominator:      
Basic weighted average shares 599 541 543
Dilutive impact of outstanding securities:      
  Equity awards 24 26 13
  1.00% Convertible Senior Notes 5 44 13
  Warrants issued with the 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes 4 38 —
Diluted weighted average shares 632 649 569
Net income per share:      
Basic (1) $ 5.09 $ 3.08 $ 1.13
Diluted (2) $ 4.82 $ 2.57 $ 1.08
Equity awards excluded from diluted net income per share because their 
effect would have been anti-dilutive 4 8 10
(1) Calculated as net income divided by basic weighted average shares.
(2) Calculated as net income divided by diluted weighted average shares.
The 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes, or the Convertible Notes, are included in the calculation of diluted net income per share. 
The Convertible Notes have a dilutive impact on net income per share if our average stock price for the reporting period 

--- Page 170 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
57
exceeds the adjusted conversion price of $20.0350 per share. The warrants associated with our Convertible Notes, or the 
Warrants, outstanding are also included in the calculation of diluted net income per share. As of January 28, 2018, there 
were no warrants outstanding.
For fiscal year 2018, our average stock price was $158.35, which exceeded both the adjusted conversion price and the 
adjusted strike price, causing the Convertible Notes and the Warrants to have a dilutive impact.
The denominator for diluted net income per share does not include any effect from the convertible note hedge transactions, 
or the Note Hedges, that we entered into concurrently with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, as its effect would be 
anti-dilutive. In the event of conversion of the Convertible Notes, the shares delivered to us under the Note Hedges will offset 
the dilutive effect of the shares that we would issue under the Convertible Notes. 
Refer to Note 11 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Convertible 
Notes, Note Hedges, and Warrants.
Note 4 - Goodwill
The carrying amount of goodwill is from the following acquisitions:
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
  (In millions)
Icera $ 271 $ 271
PortalPlayer 105 105
Mental Images 59 59
3dfx 50 50
MediaQ 35 35
ULi 31 31
Other 67 67
Total goodwill $ 618 $ 618
The amount of goodwill allocated to our GPU and Tegra Processor reporting units was $210 million and $408 million, 
respectively, as of both January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017. Refer to Note 16 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for further discussion regarding segments.
We completed our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018 and concluded that there was no 
impairment, as the fair value of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values. The fair value was determined by 
weighing the results from the income approach and the market approach.
These income and market valuation approaches consider a number of factors that include, but are not limited to, prospective 
financial information, growth rates, residual values, discount rates and comparable multiples from publicly traded 
companies in our industry and require us to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding industry economic factors 
and the future profitability of our business. When performing an income approach valuation, we incorporate the use of 
projected financial information and a discount rate that are developed using market participant based assumptions to our 
discounted cash flow model. Our estimates of discounted cash flow were based upon, among other things, certain 
assumptions about our expected future operating performance, such as revenue growth rates, operating margins, risk-
adjusted discount rates, and future economic and market conditions. The market method of determining the fair value of 
our reporting units requires us to use judgment in the selection of appropriate market comparables.

--- Page 171 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
58
Note 5 - Amortizable Intangible Assets
The components of our amortizable intangible assets are as follows:
  January 28, 2018 January 29, 2017
 
Gross 
Carrying
Amount
Accumulated
Amortization
Net 
Carrying
Amount
Gross 
Carrying
Amount
Accumulated
Amortization
Net 
Carrying
Amount
  (In millions) (In millions)
Acquisition-related
intangible assets $ 195 $ (180) $ 15 $ 193 $ (167) $ 26
Patents and licensed
technology 469 (432) 37 468 (390) 78
Total intangible assets $ 664 $ (612) $ 52 $ 661 $ (557) $ 104
Amortization expense associated with intangible assets for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016 was $55 million, $68 million, 
and $73 million, respectively. Future amortization expense for the net carrying amount of intangible assets as of January 28, 
2018 is estimated to be $26 million in fiscal year 2019, $17 million in fiscal year 2020, $8 million in fiscal year 2021, and 
$1 million in fiscal year 2022 and thereafter until fully amortized.
Note 6 - Marketable Securities
All of our cash equivalents and marketable securities are classified as “available-for-sale” securities. 
The following is a summary of cash equivalents and marketable securities as of January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017:
  January 28, 2018
Amortized
Cost
Unrealized
Gain
Unrealized
Loss
Estimated
Fair Value
Reported as
 
Cash
Equivalents
Marketable
Securities
  (In millions)
Money market funds $ 3,789 $ — $ — $ 3,789 $ 3,789 $ —
Corporate debt securities 1,304 — (9) 1,295 — 1,295
Debt securities of United States
government agencies 822 — (7) 815 — 815
Debt securities issued by the
United States Treasury 577 — (4) 573 — 573
Asset-backed securities 254 — (2) 252 — 252
Mortgage-backed securities
issued by United States
government-sponsored
enterprises 128 2 — 130 — 130
Foreign government bonds 42 — (1) 41 — 41
Total $ 6,916 $ 2 $ (23) $ 6,895 $ 3,789 $ 3,106

--- Page 172 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
59
  January 29, 2017
Amortized
Cost
Unrealized
Gain
Unrealized
Loss
Estimated
Fair Value
Reported as
 
Cash
Equivalents
Marketable
Securities
  (In millions)
Corporate debt securities $ 2,397 $ 1 $ (10) $ 2,388 $ 33 $ 2,355
Debt securities of United
States government agencies 1,193 — (5) 1,188 27 1,161
Debt securities issued by the
United States Treasury 852 — (2) 850 55 795
Asset-backed securities 490 — (1) 489 — 489
Money market funds 321 — — 321 321 —
Mortgage backed securities
issued by United States
government-sponsored
enterprises 161 2 (1) 162 — 162
Foreign government bonds 70 — — 70 — 70
Total $ 5,484 $ 3 $ (19) $ 5,468 $ 436 $ 5,032
The following table provides the breakdown of unrealized losses as of January 28, 2018, aggregated by investment category 
and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position:
  Less than 12 Months 12 Months or Greater Total
  Fair Value
Gross
Unrealized
Losses Fair Value
Gross
Unrealized
Losses Fair Value
Gross
Unrealized
Losses
  (In millions)
Corporate debt securities $ 433 $ (2) $ 801 $ (7) $ 1,234 $ (9)
Debt securities issued by United
States government agencies 175 (1) 640 (6) 815 (7)
Debt securities issued by the US
Treasury 170 (1) 404 (3) 574 (4)
Asset-backed securities 73 — 179 (2) 252 (2)
Foreign government bonds — — 41 (1) 41 (1)
Total $ 851 $ (4) $ 2,065 $ (19) $ 2,916 $ (23)
The gross unrealized losses related to fixed income securities and were primarily due to changes in interest rates, which 
we believe are temporary in nature. Currently, we have the intent and ability to hold our investments until maturity. For 
fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, there were no other-than-temporary impairment losses and net realized gains were not 
significant.

--- Page 173 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
60
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of cash equivalents and marketable securities as of January 28, 2018 and 
January 29, 2017 are shown below by contractual maturity.
  January 28, 2018 January 29, 2017
 
Amortized
Cost
Estimated
Fair Value
Amortized
Cost
Estimated
Fair Value
  (In millions)
Less than one year $ 5,381 $ 5,375 $ 2,209 $ 2,209
Due in 1 - 5 years 1,500 1,485 3,210 3,194
Mortgage-backed securities issued by government-
sponsored enterprises not due at a single maturity date 35 35 65 65
Total $ 6,916 $ 6,895 $ 5,484 $ 5,468
Note 7 - Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted 
market prices of similar assets from active markets. We classify securities within Level 1 when the fair value is obtained 
from real time quotes in active markets involving identical securities. We classify securities within Level 2 when pricing is 
obtained from real time quotes of similar securities in active markets or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing 
market observable inputs to determine fair value. There were no significant transfers between Levels 1 and 2 for fiscal 
year 2018. Level 3 assets are based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology and include our own data about 
assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available under 
the circumstances. We did not have any securities classified as Level 3 as of January 28, 2018.
  Fair Value at
Pricing Category   January 28, 2018 January 29, 2017
(In millions)
Assets
Cash equivalents and marketable securities:
Money market funds Level 1 $ 3,789 $ 321
Corporate debt securities Level 2 $ 1,295 $ 2,388
Debt securities of U.S. government agencies Level 2 $ 815 $ 1,188
Debt securities issued by the United States
Treasury Level 2 $ 573 $ 850
Asset-backed securities Level 2 $ 252 $ 489
Mortgage-backed securities issued by United
States government-sponsored enterprises Level 2 $ 130 $ 162
Foreign government bonds Level 2 $ 41 $ 70
Liabilities
Current liability:
1.00% Convertible Senior Notes (1) Level 2 $ 189 $ 4,474
Other noncurrent liabilities:
2.20% Notes Due 2021 (1) Level 2 $ 982 $ 975
3.20% Notes Due 2026 (1) Level 2 $ 986 $ 961
Interest rate swap (2) Level 2 $ — $ 2
(1) These liabilities are carried on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at their original issuance value, net of unamortized debt discount and issuance 
costs, and are not marked to fair value each period. Refer to Note 11 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
(2) In January 2018, we terminated the interest rate swap. Refer to Note 9 of these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

--- Page 174 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
61
Note 8 - Balance Sheet Components
Certain balance sheet components are as follows:
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
(In millions)
Inventories:
Raw materials $ 227 $ 252
Work in-process 192 176
Finished goods 377 366
Total inventories $ 796 $ 794
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
Estimated
Useful Life
(In millions) (In years)
Property and Equipment:
Land $ 218 $ 218 (A)
Building 348 13 25-30 (B)
Test equipment 462 427 3-5
Computer equipment 285 188 3-5
Leasehold improvements 198 176 (C)
Software and licenses 88 63 3-5
Office furniture and equipment 79 49 5
Capital leases 28 28 (C)
Construction in process 31 29 (D)
Total property and equipment, gross 1,737 1,191  
Accumulated depreciation and amortization (740) (670)  
Total property and equipment, net $ 997 $ 521  
(A) Land is a non-depreciable asset.
(B) In January 2018, we terminated the off-balance sheet, build-to-suit operating lease financing arrangement related to our new Santa Clara campus 
building and exercised our option to purchase the property for $335 million, which has been recorded as Property and Equipment, net in our 
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(C) Leasehold improvements and capital leases are amortized based on the lesser of either the asset’s estimated useful life or the remaining expected 
lease term.
(D) Construction in process represents assets that are not available for their intended use as of the balance sheet date.
Depreciation expense for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016 was $144 million, $118 million, and $124 million, respectively.
Accumulated amortization of leasehold improvements and capital leases was $178 million and $164 million as of 
January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017, respectively. Amortization of leasehold improvements and capital leases is included 
in depreciation and amortization expense.

--- Page 175 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
62
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
(In millions)
Accrued and Other Current Liabilities:
Customer related liabilities (1) $ 181 $ 197
Accrued payroll and related expenses 172 137
Deferred revenue (2) 53 85
Taxes payable 33 4
Coupon interest on debt obligations 20 21
Accrued royalties 17 7
Professional service fees 15 13
Warranty accrual (3) 15 8
Accrued restructuring and other charges 7 13
Leases payable 5 4
Contributions payable 4 4
Other 20 14
Total accrued and other current liabilities $ 542 $ 507
(1) Customer related liabilities include accrued customer programs, such as rebates and marketing development funds.
(2) Deferred revenue primarily includes customer advances and deferrals related to license and service arrangements.
(3) Refer to Note 10 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion regarding warranties.
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
(In millions)
Other Long-Term Liabilities:
Income tax payable (1) $ 559 $ 96
Deferred income tax liability 18 141
Deferred revenue 15 4
Employee benefits liability 12 10
Contributions payable 9 9
Deferred rent 9 6
Licenses payable 8 1
Other 2 10
Total other long-term liabilities $ 632 $ 277
(1) Represents the long-term portion of the one-time transition tax payable of $369 million, as well as unrecognized tax benefits of $175 million and 
related interest and penalties of $15 million. Refer to Note 13 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Note 9 - Derivative Financial Instruments
In fiscal year 2016, we entered into an interest rate swap for a portion of the operating lease financing arrangement for our 
new Santa Clara campus building. In January 2018, we terminated the operating lease financing arrangement and purchased 
the property. Concurrently, the related interest rate swap was terminated.
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on 
our operating expenses. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges and assess the effectiveness of the hedge 
relationships on a spot to spot basis. Gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive 
income or loss and reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or 
ineffectiveness should occur. The fair value of the contracts was not significant as of January 28, 2018 and January 29, 
2017.

--- Page 176 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
63
We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary 
assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. These forward contracts were not designated 
for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in other income or expense 
and offsets the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which is 
also recorded in other income or expense.
The table below presents the notional value of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of January 28, 
2018 and January 29, 2017:
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
  (In millions)
Designated as cash flow hedges $ 104 $ 67
Not designated for hedge accounting $ 94 $ 32
As of January 28, 2018, the maturities of the designated foreign currency forward contracts were three months or less. We 
expect to realize all gains and losses deferred into accumulated other comprehensive income or loss related to these foreign 
currency forward contracts within the next twelve months.
During fiscal years 2018 and 2017, the impact of derivative financial instruments designated for hedge accounting treatment 
on other comprehensive income or loss was not significant and all such instruments were determined to be highly effective. 
Therefore, there were no gains or losses associated with ineffectiveness.
Note 10 - Guarantees
U.S. GAAP requires that upon issuance of a guarantee, the guarantor must recognize a liability for the fair value of the 
obligation it assumes under that guarantee. In addition, U.S. GAAP requires disclosures about the guarantees that an entity 
has issued, including a tabular reconciliation of the changes of the entity’s product warranty liabilities.
Accrual for Product Warranty Liabilities
We record a reduction to revenue for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized primarily based on 
historical return rates. Cost of revenue includes the estimated cost of product warranties. Under limited circumstances, we 
may offer an extended limited warranty to customers for certain products. Additionally, we accrue for known warranty and 
indemnification issues if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated.
The estimated product returns and estimated product warranty liabilities recorded in accrued and other current liabilities 
on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017 are as follows:
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
  (In millions)
Balance at beginning of period $ 8 $ 11
Additions 14 2
Deductions (7) (5)
Balance at end of period  $ 15 $ 8
In connection with certain agreements that we have entered into in the past, we have provided indemnities to cover the 
indemnified party for matters such as tax, product, and employee liabilities. We have included intellectual property 
indemnification provisions in our technology related agreements with third parties. Maximum potential future payments 
cannot be estimated because many of these agreements do not have a maximum stated liability. We have not recorded any 
liability in our Consolidated Financial Statements for such indemnifications.  

--- Page 177 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
64
Note 11 - Debt
Long-Term Debt
2.20% Notes Due 2021 and 3.20% Notes Due 2026
In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the 2.20% Notes Due 2021, and $1.00 billion of the 3.20% Notes Due 2026, 
collectively, the Notes. Interest on the Notes is payable on March 16 and September 16 of each year, beginning on March 16, 
2017. Upon 30 days' notice to holders of the Notes, we may redeem the Notes for cash prior to maturity, at redemption 
prices that include accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and a make-whole premium. However, no make-whole premium will 
be paid for redemptions of the Notes Due 2021 on or after August 16, 2021, or for redemptions of the Notes Due 2026 on 
or after June 16, 2026. The net proceeds from the Notes were $1.98 billion, after deducting debt discount and issuance 
costs.
The Notes are our unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future 
unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The Notes are structurally subordinated to the liabilities of our subsidiaries 
and are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such 
indebtedness. All existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior to the Notes.
The carrying value of our long-term debt and the associated interest rates were as follows: 
   
Expected
Remaining Term 
(years)  
Effective
Interest 
Rate  
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
            (In millions)
2.20% Notes Due 2021   3.6   2.38%   $ 1,000 $ 1,000
3.20% Notes Due 2026   8.6   3.31%   1,000 1,000
Unamortized debt discount and issuance costs           (15) (17)
Net carrying amount           $ 1,985 $ 1,983
Convertible Debt
1.00% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2018
In fiscal year 2014, we issued $1.50 billion of 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018. Through January 28, 2018, we had 
settled an aggregate of $1.48 billion of the Convertible Notes. The Convertible Notes are unsecured, unsubordinated 
obligations of the Company paying interest in cash semi-annually at a rate of 1.00% per annum and will mature on December 
1, 2018 unless previously repurchased or converted. Upon conversion, we pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount 
and pay or deliver cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, at our election, of our conversion obligation 
in excess of the aggregate principal amount being converted. 
Holders may convert all or any portion of their Convertible Notes at any time prior to August 1, 2018 under certain 
circumstances. For example, during any fiscal quarter, if the last reported sale price of the common stock for at least 20 
trading days during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding 
fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day, the Convertible Notes 
become convertible at the holders' option. As this condition has been met, all outstanding Convertible Notes are convertible 
at the holders’ option through April 29, 2018. 
During fiscal year 2018, we paid cash to settle $812 million in principal amount of the Convertible Notes and had $15 million
in principal amount outstanding as of January 28, 2018. We also issued 33 million shares of our common stock for the 
excess conversion value and recognized a loss of $19 million on early conversions of the Convertible Notes. Based on the 
closing price of our common stock of $243.33 on the last trading day of fiscal year 2018, the if-converted value of the 
remaining outstanding Convertible Notes exceeded their principal amount by approximately $174 million. As of January 28, 
2018, the conversion rate was 49.9127 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes 
(equivalent to an adjusted conversion price of $20.0350 per share of common stock).
We separately accounted for the liability and equity components of the Convertible Notes as our conversion obligation in 
excess of the aggregate principal could be fully or partially settled in cash. The liability component was assigned by estimating 

--- Page 178 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
65
the fair value of a similar debt without the conversion feature. The difference between the net cash proceeds and the liability 
component was assigned as the equity component. The initial liability component of the Convertible Notes was valued 
at $1.35 billion and the initial carrying value of the equity component recorded in additional paid-in-capital was valued 
at $126 million. This equity component, together with the $23 million purchaser's discount to the par value of the Convertible 
Notes, represented the initial aggregate unamortized debt discount of $148 million. The debt discount is amortized as 
interest expense over the contractual term of the Convertible Notes using the effective interest method and an interest rate 
of 3.15%.
As of January 28, 2018, the carrying value of the Convertible Notes was classified as a current liability and the difference 
between the principal amount and the carrying value of the Convertible Notes was classified as convertible debt conversion 
obligation in the mezzanine equity section of our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The convertible debt conversion obligation 
as of January 28, 2018 was not significant.
The following table presents the carrying value of the Convertible Notes:
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
(In millions)
1.00% Convertible Senior Notes $ 15 $ 827
Unamortized debt discount (1) — (31)
Net carrying amount $ 15 $ 796
(1) As of January 28, 2018, the balance of unamortized debt discount was not significant and will be fully amortized in fiscal year 2019.
The following table presents interest expense for the contractual interest and the accretion of debt discount and issuance 
costs related to the Convertible Notes:
Year Ended
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
(In millions)
Contractual coupon interest expense $ — $ 9 $ 15
Amortization of debt discount 2 24 29
Total interest expense related to Convertible Notes $ 2 $ 33 $ 44
Note Hedges and Warrants
Concurrently with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, we entered into a convertible note hedge transaction, or the Note 
Hedges. The Note Hedges have an adjusted strike price of $20.0350 per share and allow us to receive shares of our common 
stock and/or cash related to the excess conversion value that we would deliver and/or pay, respectively, to the holders of 
the Convertible Notes upon conversion. Through January 28, 2018, we had received 56 million shares of our common stock 
from the exercise of a portion of the Note Hedges related to the settlement of $1.48 billion in principal amount of 
the Convertible Notes. 
In addition, concurrent with the offering of the Convertible Notes and the purchase of the Note Hedges, we entered into a 
separate warrant transaction, or the Warrants. In fiscal year 2017, we entered into an agreement to terminate 63 
million warrants and delivered a total of 48 million shares of common stock. In fiscal year 2018, we entered into a second 
agreement to terminate the remaining 12 million warrants outstanding and delivered a total of 10 million shares of common 
stock. Therefore, no warrants were outstanding as of January 28, 2018.
Revolving Credit Facility
In fiscal year 2017, we entered into a credit agreement, or the Credit Agreement, under which we may borrow, repay and 
re-borrow amounts from time to time, up to $575 million, for working capital and other general corporate purposes. The 
commitments under the Credit Agreement are available for a 5-year period ending on October 7, 2021. The Credit Agreement 
also permits us to obtain additional revolving loan commitments up to $425 million, subject to certain conditions. As of 

--- Page 179 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
66
January 28, 2018, we had not borrowed any amounts and were in compliance with all related covenants under the Credit 
Agreement.
Commercial Paper
In December 2017, we established a commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes. Under the program, 
we can issue up to $575 million in commercial paper. As of January 28, 2018, there was no commercial paper outstanding.
Note 12 - Commitments and Contingencies
Inventory Purchase Obligations
As of January 28, 2018, we had outstanding inventory purchase obligations totaling $1.33 billion.
Capital Purchase Obligations
As of January 28, 2018, we had outstanding capital purchase obligations totaling $135 million.
Lease Obligations
Our headquarters complex is located in Santa Clara, California and includes ten buildings that are leased properties. Future 
minimum lease payments related to headquarters operating leases total $63 million over the remaining terms of the leases, 
including predetermined rent escalations, and are included in the future minimum lease payment schedule below.
Additionally, we have other domestic and international office facilities, including datacenter space, under operating leases 
expiring through fiscal year 2027. We also include non-cancelable obligations under certain software licensing arrangements 
as operating leases.
Future minimum lease payments under our non-cancelable operating leases as of January 28, 2018, are as follows:   
 
Future Minimum
Lease Obligations
  (In millions)
Fiscal Year:  
2019 $ 63
2020 53
2021 50
2022 44
2023 25
2024 and thereafter 11
Total $ 246
Rent expense for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016 was $54 million, $46 million, and $45 million, respectively.
Operating Lease Financing Arrangement 
In January 2018, we exercised the option to terminate the off-balance sheet, build-to-suit operating lease financing 
arrangement related to our new Santa Clara campus building, and purchased the building for $335 million.
Litigation
Polaris Innovations Limited
On May 16, 2016, Polaris Innovations Limited, or Polaris, a non-practicing entity and wholly-owned subsidiary of Quarterhill 
Inc. (formerly WiLAN Inc.), filed a complaint against NVIDIA for patent infringement in the United States District Court for 
the Western District of Texas. Polaris alleges that NVIDIA has infringed and is continuing to infringe six U.S. patents relating 
to the control of dynamic random-access memory, or DRAM: 6,532,505; 7,124,325; 7,405,993; 7,886,122; 8,161,344; and 
8,207,976. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages, enhanced damages, interest, fees, expenses, and costs 

--- Page 180 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
67
against NVIDIA. On September 14, 2016, NVIDIA answered the Polaris Complaint and asserted various defenses including 
non-infringement and invalidity of the six Polaris patents.
On December 5, 2016, the Texas Court granted NVIDIA’s motion to transfer and ordered the case transferred to the Northern 
District of California.
Between December 7, 2016 and July 25, 2017, NVIDIA filed multiple petitions for inter partes review, or IPR, at the United 
States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, challenging the validity of each of the patents asserted by Polaris in the 
U.S. litigation. The USPTO instituted IPRs for U.S. Patent Nos. 6,532,505; 7,405,993; 7,886,122; and 8,161,344. The USPTO 
declined to institute IPRs on U.S. Patent Nos. 7,124,325 and 8,207,976.
On June 15, 2017, the California Court granted NVIDIA’s motion to stay the district court litigation pending resolution of the 
petitions for IPR. The California Court has not set a trial date.
On December 30, 2016, Polaris filed a complaint against NVIDIA for patent infringement in the Regional Court of Düsseldorf, 
Germany. Polaris alleges that NVIDIA has infringed and is continuing to infringe three patents relating to control of DRAM: 
European Patent No. EP1428225, and German Patent Nos. DE 10223167 and DE 1020066043668. On July 14, 2017, NVIDIA 
filed defenses to the infringement allegations including non-infringement with respect to each of the three asserted patents. 
An oral hearing is scheduled for February 21, 2019.
Between March 31, 2017 and June 12, 2017, NVIDIA filed nullity actions with the German Patent Court challenging the 
validity of each of the patents asserted by Polaris in the German litigation.
ZiiLabs 1 Patents Lawsuit
On October 2, 2017, ZiiLabs Inc., Ltd., or ZiiLabs, a non-practicing entity, filed a complaint in the United States District Court 
for the District of Delaware alleging that NVIDIA has infringed and is continuing to infringe four U.S. patents relating to 
GPUs: 6,683,615; 7,050,061; 7,710,425; and 9,098,943, or the ZiiLabs 1 Patents. ZiiLabs is a Bermuda corporation and a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of Creative Technology Asia Limited, a Hong Kong company which is itself is a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Creative Technology Ltd. a publicly traded Singapore company.  The complaint seeks unspecified monetary 
damages, enhanced damages, interest, costs, and fees against NVIDIA and an injunction against further direct or direct 
infringement of the ZiiLabs 1 Patents.  On November 27, 2017, NVIDIA answered the ZiiLabs complaint and asserted various 
defenses including non-infringement and invalidity of the ZiiLabs 1 Patents.  
On January 10, 2018, ZiiLabs filed a first amended complaint asserting infringement of a fifth U.S. Patent No. 6,977,649.
ZiiLabs 2 Patents Lawsuits
On December 27, 2017, ZiiLabs filed a second complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware 
alleging that NVIDIA has infringed four additional U.S. Patents: 6,181,355; 6,900,800; 8,144,156; and 8,643,659, or the ZiiLabs 
2 Patents.  The second complaint also seeks unspecified monetary damages, enhanced damages, interest, costs, and fees 
against NVIDIA and an injunction against further direct or direct infringement of the ZiiLabs 2 Patents.
On December 29, 2017, ZiiLabs filed a request with the U.S. International Trade Commission, or USITC, to commence an 
Investigation pursuant to Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 relating to the unlawful importation of certain graphics 
processors and products containing the same.  ZiiLabs alleges that the unlawful importation results from the infringement 
of the ZiiLabs 2 Patents by products from respondents NVIDIA, ASUSTeK Computer Inc., ASUS Computer International, EVGA 
Corporation, Gigabyte Technology Co., Ltd., G.B.T. Inc., Micro-Star International Co., Ltd., MSI Computer Corp., Nintendo Co., 
Ltd., Nintendo of America Inc., PNY Technologies Inc., Zotac International (MCO) Ltd., and Zotac USA Inc.
Accounting for Loss Contingencies
While there can be no assurance of favorable outcomes, we believe the claims made by the other parties in the above 
ongoing matters are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend the actions. As of January 28, 2018, we have not 
recorded any accrual for contingent liabilities associated with the legal proceedings described above based on our belief 
that liabilities, while possible, are not probable. Further, any possible loss or range of loss in these matters cannot be 
reasonably estimated at this time. We are engaged in other legal actions not described above arising in the ordinary course 
of its business and, while there can be no assurance of favorable outcomes, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these 
actions will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position. 

--- Page 181 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
68
Note 13 - Income Taxes
The income tax expense (benefit) applicable to income before income taxes consists of the following:
  Year Ended
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
  (In millions)
Current income taxes:      
Federal $ 464 $ 7 $ (43)
State 1 1 1
Foreign 43 34 25
Total current 508 42 (17)
Deferred taxes:      
Federal (376) 199 134
State — — —
Foreign 17 (2) —
Total deferred (359) 197 134
Charge in lieu of taxes attributable to employer stock option plans — — 12
Income tax expense $ 149 $ 239 $ 129
Income before income tax consists of the following:
  Year Ended
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
  (In millions)
Domestic (1) $ 1,600 $ 600 $ 129
Foreign 1,596 1,305 614
Income before income tax $ 3,196 $ 1,905 $ 743
(1) The increase in domestic income is primarily due to jurisdictional allocation of stock-based compensation charges.

--- Page 182 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
69
The income tax expense differs from the amount computed by applying the blended U.S. federal statutory rate of 33.9% for 
fiscal year 2018 and U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% for fiscal years 2017 and 2016 to income before income taxes as 
follows:
  Year Ended
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
  (In millions)
Tax expense computed at federal statutory rate $ 1,084 $ 667 $ 260
Expense (benefit) resulting from:
State income taxes, net of federal tax effect 10 4 1
Foreign tax rate differential (545) (315) (95)
Stock-based compensation (1) (181) (70) 13
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (2) (133) — —
U.S. federal R&D tax credit (87) (52) (38)
Tax expense related to intercompany transaction — 10 10
Restructuring and expiration of statute of limitations — — (21)
Other 1 (5) (1)
Income tax expense $ 149 $ 239 $ 129
(1) We adopted an accounting standard related to stock-based compensation effective February 1, 2016, which required the excess tax benefit to be 
reflected in our provision for income taxes rather than in additional paid-in-capital. The total related excess tax benefit recognized for fiscal year 
2018 and 2017 was $197 million and $82 million, respectively. 
(2) We recognized a provisional tax benefit of $133 million, which was included as a component of income tax expense.
The tax effect of temporary differences that gives rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
presented below:  
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
  (In millions)
Deferred tax assets:  
Net operating loss carryforwards $ 67 $ 199
Accruals and reserves, not currently deductible for tax purposes 24 40
Property, equipment and intangible assets 32 50
Research and other tax credit carryforwards 579 728
Stock-based compensation 24 34
Convertible debt — 6
Gross deferred tax assets 726 1,057
Less valuation allowance (469) (353)
Total deferred tax assets 257 704
Deferred tax liabilities:    
Acquired intangibles (4) (11)
Unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries (26) (827)
Gross deferred tax liabilities (30) (838)
Net deferred tax asset (liability) $ 227 $ (134)
We recognized income tax expense of $149 million, $239 million, and $129 million for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, 
respectively. Our annual effective tax rate was 4.7%, 12.5%, and 17.3% for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. 
In December 2017, the TCJA was enacted into law. The TCJA significantly changes U.S. tax law, including a reduction of the 
U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a requirement for companies to pay a one-time transition tax on 

--- Page 183 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
70
the earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of new taxes on certain 
foreign-source earnings. As a fiscal year-end taxpayer, certain provisions of the TCJA began to impact us in the fourth 
quarter of fiscal year 2018, while other provisions will impact us beginning in fiscal year 2019. 
The corporate tax reduction is effective as of January 1, 2018. Since we operate on a fiscal year rather than a calendar year, 
we are subject to transitional tax rules. As a result, our fiscal year 2018 federal statutory rate is a blended rate of 33.9%.  
The change in the statutory tax rate from 35% to 33.9% for fiscal year 2018 did not have a significant impact on the effective 
tax rate.
U.S. GAAP requires companies to recognize the effect of tax law changes in the period of enactment. However, the SEC also 
issued guidance that allows companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to exceed one 
year. Accordingly, as of January 28, 2018, we recognized a provisional tax benefit of $133 million as a component of income 
tax expense, which is our reasonable estimate of the effects of the tax law changes on existing deferred tax balances and 
the calculation of the one-time transition tax. 
The one-time transition tax is based on the post-1986 earnings and profits, or E&P, of our foreign subsidiaries. We had 
previously accrued deferred taxes on a portion of these same earnings. We recorded a provisional one-time transition tax 
liability of $971 million and released the previously accrued deferred tax liabilities of $1.15 billion, resulting in a net decrease 
to income tax expense of $176 million.
We have reasonably estimated, but not yet completed, the calculation of the total post-1986 E&P for our foreign subsidiaries. 
Our calculation of the transition tax may change with further analysis, additional guidance from the U.S. federal and state 
tax authorities and additional guidance for the associated income tax accounting.
As a result of the reduction of the corporate income tax rate to 21%, companies were required to remeasure their deferred 
tax assets and liabilities as of the date of enactment. As a result, we recorded a provisional income tax expense of $43 
million on the write-down of our deferred tax balance.
The decrease in the effective tax rate in fiscal year 2018 as compared to fiscal years 2017 and 2016 was primarily due to 
the provisional impact of the tax law changes and the recognition of excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. 
The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2017 as compared to fiscal year 2016 was primarily due to the recognition 
of excess tax benefits from our adoption of a new accounting standard in fiscal year 2017 related to the simplification of 
certain aspects of stock-based compensation accounting.
Our effective tax rate  for fiscal year 2018 was lower than the blended U.S. federal statutory rate of 33.9% due primarily to 
income earned in jurisdictions, including British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong, China, Taiwan and United Kingdom, where the 
tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rates, favorable recognition of the U.S. federal research tax credit, the 
provisional impact of the recent tax law changes in 2018, and excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. 
Our effective tax rate  for fiscal years 2017 and 2016 was lower than U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% due primarily 
to income earned in jurisdictions, including British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong, China, Taiwan and United Kingdom, where 
the tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rates, favorable recognition in those fiscal years of the U.S. federal 
research tax credit, favorable discrete events primarily attributable to the tax benefit recognized upon the expiration of the 
applicable statutes of limitations, and adoption of an accounting standard related to stock-based compensation in fiscal 
year 2017.
As of January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017, we had a valuation allowance of $469 million and $353 million, respectively, 
related to state and certain foreign deferred tax assets that management determined not likely to be realized due, in part, 
to projections of future taxable income. To the extent realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more-likely-than-
not, we would recognize such deferred tax asset as an income tax benefit during the period.
As of January 28, 2018, we had federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $74 million, $226 million and 
$281 million, respectively. The federal and state carryforwards will expire beginning in fiscal year 2023 and 2019, 
respectively. The foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $281 million may be carried forward indefinitely. As of 
January 28, 2018, we had federal research tax credit carryforwards of $361 million that will begin to expire in fiscal year 
2032. We have state research tax credit carryforwards of $575 million, of which $554 million is attributable to the State of 
California and may be carried over indefinitely, and $21 million is attributable to various other states and will expire beginning 
in fiscal year 2019. Our tax attributes, net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, remain subject to audit and may be 
adjusted for changes or modification in tax laws, other authoritative interpretations thereof, or other facts and circumstances. 

--- Page 184 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
71
Utilization of federal, state, and foreign net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards may also be subject to limitations 
due to ownership changes and other limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state and foreign tax 
provisions. If any such limitations apply, the federal, states, or foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, as 
applicable, may expire or be denied before utilization.
As of January 28, 2018, we had $447 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which $413 million would affect our 
effective tax rate if recognized. However, approximately $58 million of the unrecognized tax benefits were related to state 
income tax positions taken, that, if recognized, would be in the form of a carryforward deferred tax asset that would likely 
attract a full valuation allowance. The $413 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of January 28, 2018 consisted of $175 
million recorded in non-current income taxes payable and $238 million reflected as a reduction to the related deferred tax 
assets.
A reconciliation of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
  (In millions)
Balance at beginning of period $ 224 $ 230 $ 254
Increases in tax positions for prior years 7 3 —
Decreases in tax positions for prior years (1) — (1)
Increases in tax positions for current year 222 46 28
Settlements — (48) —
Lapse in statute of limitations (5) (7) (51)
Balance at end of period $ 447 $ 224 $ 230
The increase in the unrecognized tax benefit in fiscal year 2018 is primarily due to the one-time transition tax imposed on 
foreign earnings under the TCJA. We classify an unrecognized tax benefit as a current liability, or amount refundable, to 
the extent that we anticipate payment or receipt of cash for income taxes within one year. The amount is classified as a 
long-term liability, or reduction of long-term deferred tax assets or amount refundable if we anticipate payment or receipt 
of cash for income taxes during a period beyond a year.
Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. 
As of January 28, 2018, January 29, 2017, and January 31, 2016, we had accrued $15 million, $13 million, and $11 million, 
respectively, for the payment of interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits, which is not included as a 
component of our unrecognized tax benefits. As of January 28, 2018, unrecognized tax benefits of $175 million and the 
related interest and penalties of $15 million are included in non-current income taxes payable.
While we believe that we have adequately provided for all tax positions, amounts asserted by tax authorities could be greater 
or less than our accrued position. Accordingly, our provisions on federal, state and foreign tax-related matters to be recorded 
in the future may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. As 
of January 28, 2018, we do not believe that our estimates, as otherwise provided for, on such tax positions will significantly 
increase or decrease within the next twelve months.
We are subject to taxation by a number of taxing authorities both in the United States and throughout the world. As of 
January 28, 2018, the significant tax jurisdictions that may be subject to examination include the United States, Hong Kong, 
Taiwan, China, United Kingdom, Germany, and India for fiscal years 2003 through 2017. As of January 28, 2018, the significant 
tax jurisdictions for which we are currently under examination include India, Taiwan, UK, and Germany for fiscal years 2003 
through 2017.
Note 14 - Shareholders’ Equity
Capital Return Program
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock.
During fiscal year 2018, we repurchased a total of 6 million shares for $909 million and paid $341 million in cash dividends 
to our shareholders.

--- Page 185 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
72
Through January 28, 2018, we have repurchased an aggregate of 251 million shares under our share repurchase program 
for a total cost of $5.5 billion. All shares delivered from these repurchases have been placed into treasury stock. As of 
January 28, 2018, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our common 
stock up to $1.82 billion through December 2020. 
Preferred Stock
As of January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017, there were no shares of preferred stock outstanding.
Common Stock
We are authorized to issue up to 2.00 billion shares of our common stock at $0.001 per share par value.
Note 15 - Employee Retirement Plans
We have a 401(k) retirement plan covering substantially all of our United States employees. Under the plan, participating 
employees may defer up to 80% of their pre-tax earnings, subject to the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limits 
and we match a portion of the employee contributions. Our contribution expense for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016 was 
$23 million, $12 million, and $8 million, respectively. We also have defined contribution retirement plans outside of the 
United States to which we contributed $25 million, $23 million, and $21 million for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, 
respectively.
Note 16 - Segment Information 
Our Chief Executive Officer, who is considered to be our chief operating decision maker, or CODM, reviews financial 
information presented on an operating segment basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial 
performance. Our operating segments are equivalent to our reportable segments. 
We report our business in two primary reportable segments - the GPU business and the Tegra Processor business - based 
on a single underlying graphics architecture. 
While our GPU and CUDA architecture is unified, our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce 
for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based 
visual computing users. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-
core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming 
and entertainment devices.
Under the single unifying graphics architecture for our GPU and Tegra Processors, we leverage our visual computing 
expertise by charging the operating expenses of certain core engineering functions to the GPU business, while charging 
the Tegra Processor business for the incremental cost of the teams working directly for that business. In instances where 
the operating expenses of certain functions benefit both reportable segments, our CODM assigns 100% of those expenses 
to the reportable segment that benefits the most. 
The “All Other” category presented below represents the revenue and expenses that our CODM does not assign to either 
the GPU business or the Tegra Processor business for purposes of making operating decisions or assessing financial 
performance. The revenue includes primarily patent licensing revenue and the expenses include stock-based compensation 
expense, corporate infrastructure and support costs, acquisition-related costs, legal settlement costs, contributions, 
restructuring and other charges, product warranty charge, and other non-recurring charges and benefits that our CODM 
deems to be enterprise in nature. 
Our CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on a reportable segment basis. Reportable segments do 
not record intersegment revenue, and, accordingly, there is none to be reported. The accounting policies for segment 
reporting are the same as for NVIDIA as a whole. The table below presents details of our reportable segments and the “All 
Other” category.

--- Page 186 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
73
  GPU
Tegra
Processor All Other Consolidated
(In millions)
Year Ended January 28, 2018:        
Revenue $ 8,137 $ 1,534 $ 43 $ 9,714
Depreciation and amortization expense $ 123 $ 37 $ 39 $ 199
Operating income (loss) $ 3,507 $ 303 $ (600) $ 3,210
Year Ended January 29, 2017:        
Revenue $ 5,822 $ 824 $ 264 $ 6,910
Depreciation and amortization expense $ 116 $ 29 $ 42 $ 187
Operating income (loss) $ 2,180 $ (9) $ (237) $ 1,934
Year Ended January 31, 2016:        
Revenue $ 4,187 $ 559 $ 264 $ 5,010
Depreciation and amortization expense $ 110 $ 43 $ 44 $ 197
Operating income (loss) $ 1,344 $ (239) $ (358) $ 747
Year Ended
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
(In millions)
Reconciling items included in "All Other" category:
Unallocated revenue $ 43 $ 264 $ 264
Stock-based compensation (391) (247) (204)
Unallocated cost of revenue and operating expenses (237) (215) (244)
Acquisition-related costs (13) (16) (22)
Contributions (2) (4) —
Legal settlement costs — (16) —
Restructuring and other charges — (3) (131)
Product warranty charges — — (21)
Total $ (600) $ (237) $ (358)
Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially 
billed even if our customers’ revenue is attributable to end customers that are located in a different location. The following 
table summarizes information pertaining to our revenue from customers based on the invoicing address by geographic 
regions: 
  Year Ended
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
Revenue: (In millions)
Taiwan $ 2,991 $ 2,546 $ 1,912
Other Asia Pacific 2,066 1,010 749
China 1,896 1,305 806
United States 1,274 904 643
Europe 768 659 482
Other Americas 719 486 418
Total revenue $ 9,714 $ 6,910 $ 5,010

--- Page 187 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
74
The following table summarizes information pertaining to our revenue by each of the specialized markets we serve:
  Year Ended
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
January 31,
2016
Revenue: (In millions)
Gaming $ 5,513 $ 4,060 $ 2,818
Professional Visualization 934 835 750
Datacenter 1,932 830 339
Automotive 558 487 320
OEM & IP 777 698 783
Total revenue $ 9,714 $ 6,910 $ 5,010
The following table presents summarized information for long-lived assets by geographic region. Long-lived assets consist 
of property and equipment and deposits and other assets, and exclude goodwill and intangible assets.
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
Long-lived assets: (In millions)
United States $ 928 $ 440
Taiwan 58 52
India 40 47
China 33 34
Europe 11 9
Other Asia Pacific 1 1
Total long-lived assets $ 1,071 $ 583
No single customer represented more than 10% of total revenue for fiscal year 2018. In fiscal years 2017 and 2016, we had 
one customer that represented 12% and 11% of our total revenue, respectively. The revenue was attributable to the GPU 
business.
Accounts receivable from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total accounts receivable for the 
respective periods, is summarized as follows: 
 
January 28,
2018
January 29,
2017
Accounts Receivable:    
Customer A 17% 19%
Customer B 11% 1%

--- Page 188 ---
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)
75
Note 17 - Quarterly Summary (Unaudited)
The following table sets forth our unaudited consolidated financial results, for the last eight fiscal quarters:
 
Fiscal Year 2018
Quarters Ended
 
January 28,
2018
October 28,
2017
July 29,
2017
April 29,
2017
  (In millions, except per share data)
Statements of Income Data:        
Revenue $ 2,911 $ 2,636 $ 2,230 $ 1,937
Cost of revenue $ 1,110 $ 1,067 $ 928 $ 787
Gross profit $ 1,801 $ 1,569 $ 1,302 $ 1,150
Net income (1) $ 1,118 $ 838 $ 583 $ 507
Net income per share (1):
Basic $ 1.84 $ 1.39 $ 0.98 $ 0.86
Diluted $ 1.78 $ 1.33 $ 0.92 $ 0.79
(1) In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, we recorded a U.S. tax reform provisional net tax benefit of $133 million associated with the one-time 
transition tax on our historical foreign earnings and the adjustment of deferred tax balances to the lower corporate tax rate. Refer to Note 13 of these 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion regarding the U.S. tax reform.
 
Fiscal Year 2017
Quarters Ended
 
January 29,
2017
October 30,
2016
July 31,
2016
May 1,
2016
  (In millions, except per share data)
Statements of Income Data:        
Revenue $ 2,173 $ 2,004 $ 1,428 $ 1,305
Cost of revenue $ 870 $ 821 $ 602 $ 554
Gross profit $ 1,303 $ 1,183 $ 826 $ 751
Net income (1) $ 655 $ 542 $ 261 $ 208
Net income per share (1):
Basic $ 1.18 $ 1.01 $ 0.49 $ 0.39
Diluted $ 0.99 $ 0.83 $ 0.41 $ 0.35
(1) In the third quarter of fiscal year 2017, we adopted an accounting standard related to stock-based compensation, which requires adjustments to be 
reflected beginning in fiscal year 2017. The adoption of the new accounting standard impacted our previously reported quarterly results for fiscal 
year 2017.

--- Page 189 ---
76
NVIDIA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE II – VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
Description
Balance at
Beginning of 
Period Additions   Deductions  
Balance at
End of Period
  (In millions)
Fiscal year 2018            
Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 3 $ 1 (1) $ — (1) $ 4
Sales return allowance $ 10 $ 15 (2) $ (16) (4) $ 9
Deferred tax valuation allowance $ 353 $ 116 (3) $ — $ 469
Fiscal year 2017            
Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 2 $ 1 (1) $ — (1) $ 3
Sales return allowance $ 9 $ 9 (2) $ (8) (4) $ 10
Deferred tax valuation allowance $ 272 $ 81 (3) $ — $ 353
Fiscal year 2016            
Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 3 $ — (1) $ (1) (1) $ 2
Sales return allowance $ 14 $ 9 (2) $ (14) (4) $ 9
Deferred tax valuation allowance $ 261 $ 11 (3) $ — $ 272
(1) Additions represent allowance for doubtful accounts charged to expense and deductions represent amounts recorded as reduction to expense upon 
reassessment of allowance for doubtful accounts at period end.
(2) Represents allowance for sales returns estimated at the time revenue is recognized primarily based on historical return rates and is charged as a 
reduction to revenue.
(3) Represents change in valuation allowance primarily related to state and certain foreign deferred tax assets that management has determined not 
likely to be realized due, in part, to projections of future taxable income of the respective jurisdictions. Refer to Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 
(4) Represents sales returns.

--- Page 190 ---
77
EXHIBIT INDEX
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit
No. Exhibit Description
Schedule/
Form
File
Number Exhibit Filing Date
3.1 Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation
S-8 333-74905 4.1 3/23/1999
3.2 Certificate of Amendment of Amended and 
Restated Certificate of Incorporation
10-Q 0-23985 3.1 8/21/2008
3.3 Certificate of Amendment of Amended and 
Restated Certificate of Incorporation
8-K 0-23985 3.1 5/24/2011
3.4 Bylaws of NVIDIA Corporation, Amended and 
Restated as of November 29, 2016
8-K 0-23985 3.1 12/1/2016
4.1 Reference is made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2, 3.3
and 3.4
4.2 Specimen Stock Certificate S-1/A 333-47495 4.2 4/24/1998
4.3 Indenture (including the form of Notes) dated 
December 2, 2013 between NVIDIA 
Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank, National 
Association
8-K 0-23985 4.1 12/2/2013
4.4 Form of 1.00% Convertible Senior Note due 
2018 (included in Exhibit 4.1)
8-K 0-23985 4.1 12/2/2013
4.5 Indenture, dated as of September 16, 2016, by 
and between the Company and Wells Fargo 
Bank, National Association, as Trustee
8-K 0-23985 4.1 9/16/2016
4.6 Officers’ Certificate, dated as of September 
16, 2016
8-K 0-23985 4.2 9/16/2016
4.7 Form of 2021 Note 8-K 0-23985 Annex A to
Exhibit 4.2
9/16/2016
4.8 Form of 2026 Note 8-K 0-23985 Annex B to
Exhibit 4.2
9/16/2016
10.1 Form of Indemnity Agreement between 
NVIDIA Corporation and each of its directors 
and officers
8-K 0-23985 10.1 3/7/2006
10.2+ Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan
8-K 0-23985 10.1 5/23/2016
10.3+ 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Non-Statutory 
Stock Option (Annual Grant - Board Service 
(2011))
10-Q 0-23985 10.41 5/27/2011
10.4+ 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Non-Statutory 
Stock Option (Initial Grant - Board Service 
(2011))
8-K 0-23985 10.1 12/14/2011
10.5+ Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan - Non-Employee Director 
Stock Option Grant (2012 Annual Board 
Retainer)
10-Q 0-23985 10.4 5/23/2012
10.6+ 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Non Statutory 
Stock Option
8-K 0-23985 10.2 9/13/2010
10.7+ 2007 Equity Incentive Plan - Incentive Stock 
Option
8-K 0-23985 10.21 9/13/2010
10.8+ Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan - Non Statutory Stock Option
10-Q 0-23985 10.1 8/22/2012
10.9+ Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan - Incentive Stock Option
10-Q 0-23985 10.2 8/22/2012

--- Page 191 ---
78
10.10+ Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan - Restricted Stock Unit Grant 
Notice and Restricted Stock Unit Purchase 
Agreement
10-Q 0-23985 10.3 8/22/2012
10.11+ Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan - Non-Employee Director 
Restricted Stock Unit (with deferral option)
10-Q 0-23985 10.3 5/23/2012
10.12+ Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan - Non Statutory Stock Option 
(Initial Grant - Board Service)
8-K 0-23985 10.1 7/23/2013
10.13+ Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan - Non-Employee Director 
Deferred Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice 
and Deferred Restricted Stock Unit 
Agreement (2015)
10-K 0-23985 10.25 3/12/2015
10.14+ Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan - Non-Employee Director 
Deferred Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice 
and Deferred Restricted Stock Unit 
Agreement (2016)
10-K 0-23985 10.26 3/12/2015
10.15+ Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan - Non-Employee Director 
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and 
Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2016)
10-K 0-23985 10.27 3/12/2015
10.16+ Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan - Non-Employee Director 
Restricted Stock Unit (Initial Grant - with 
deferral options)
10-Q 0-23985 10.1 5/20/2015
10.17+ Amended and Restated 2007 Equity 
Incentive Plan - Restricted Stock Unit Grant 
Notice and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement 
& Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit 
Grant Notice and Performance-Based 
Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2015)
10-Q 0-23985 10.2 5/20/2015
10.18+* Amended and Restated 2012 Employee 
Stock Purchase Plan
10.19+ Fiscal Year 2017 Variable Compensation 
Plan
8-K 0-23985 10.1 3/14/2016
10.20+ Fiscal Year 2018 Variable Compensation Plan 8-K 0-23985 10.1 3/13/2017
10.21+ Offer Letter between NVIDIA Corporation and 
Colette Kress, dated September 13, 2013
8-K 0-23985 10.1 9/16/2013
10.22+ Offer Letter between NVIDIA Corporation 
and Tim Teter, dated December 16, 2016
8-K 0-23985 10.1 1/19/2017
10.23 Master Confirmation and Supplemental 
Confirmation between NVIDIA Corporation 
and Goldman, Sachs & Co., dated May 14, 
2013
10-Q 0-23985 10.3 5/22/2013
10.24 Base Convertible Note Hedge Transaction 
Confirmation
8-K 0-23985 99.1 12/2/2013
10.25 Base Warrant Transaction Confirmation 8-K 0-23985 99.2 12/2/2013
10.26 Additional Convertible Note Hedge 
Transaction Confirmation
8-K 0-23985 99.3 12/2/2013
10.27 Additional Warrant Transaction 
Confirmation
8-K 0-23985 99.4 12/2/2013
10.28 Termination Agreement, dated as of 
December 12, 2016, by and between NVIDIA 
Corporation and Goldman, Sachs & Co.
8-K 0-23985 10.1 12/13/2016
10.29 Second Termination Agreement, dated as of 
June 2, 2017, by and between NVIDIA 
Corporation and Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
8-K 0-23985 10.1 6/5/2017

--- Page 192 ---
79
10.30^ Participation Agreement dated June 19, 
2015 among NVIDIA Land Development, LLC, 
Wachovia Service Corporation, Wells Fargo 
Bank, National Association, and a syndicate 
of other institutions
10-Q 0-23985 10.1 8/19/2015
10.31 First Amendment to Participation 
Agreement dated February 17, 2016 among 
NVIDIA Land Development, LLC, Wachovia 
Service Corporation, and Wells Fargo Bank, 
N.A., and a syndicate of other institutions
10-Q 0-23985 10.1 5/25/2016
10.32 Second Amendment to Participation 
Agreement dated September 9, 2016 among 
NVIDIA Land Development, LLC, Wachovia 
Service Corporation, and Wells Fargo Bank, 
N.A., and a syndicate of other institutions
10-Q 0-23985 10.1 11/22/2016
10.33 Third Amendment to Participation 
Agreement dated January 27, 2017 among 
NVIDIA Land Development, LLC, Wachovia 
Service Corporation, and Wells Fargo Bank, 
N.A., and a syndicate of other institutions
10-K 0-23985 10.34 3/1/2017
10.34 Agency Agreement dated June 19, 2015 
between NVIDIA Land Development, LLC and 
Wachovia Service Corporation
10-Q 0-23985 10.2 8/19/2015
10.35 Real Property Lease Agreement dated June 
19, 2015 between Wachovia Service 
Corporation and NVIDIA Land Development, 
LLC
10-Q 0-23985 10.3 8/19/2015
10.36 Credit Agreement, dated as of October 7, 
2016 by and among NVIDIA Corporation, 
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as 
administrative agent, and the lenders party 
thereto
8-K 0-23985 1.1 10/13/2016
10.37 Form of Commercial Paper Dealer 
Agreement between NVIDIA Corporation, as 
Issuer, and the Dealer party thereto
8-K 0-23985 10.1 12/15/2017
21.1* List of Registrant's Subsidiaries
23.1* Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
24.1* Power of Attorney (included in signature page)
31.1* Certification of Chief Executive Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934
31.2* Certification of Chief Financial Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
32.1#* Certification of Chief Executive Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934
32.2#* Certification of Chief Financial Officer as required by Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
101.INS*  XBRL Instance Document
101.SCH*  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
101.CAL*  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
101.DEF*  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
101.LAB*  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels Linkbase Document
101.PRE* XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
*  Filed herewith.
+  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
^  Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to portions of this exhibit.
#  In accordance with Item 601(b)(32)(ii) of Regulation S-K and SEC Release Nos. 33-8238 and 34-47986, Final Rule: 
Management's Reports on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Certification of Disclosure in Exchange Act 

--- Page 193 ---
80
Periodic Reports, the certifications furnished in Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 hereto are deemed to accompany this Annual 
Report on Form 10-K and will not be deemed “filed” for purpose of Section 18 of the Exchange Act. Such certifications 
will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except 
to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.
Copies of above exhibits not contained herein are available to any shareholder upon written request to:
Investor Relations: NVIDIA Corporation, 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, CA 95051

--- Page 194 ---
81
SIGNATURES
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused 
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 28, 2018.
NVIDIA Corporation
By: /s/  Jen-Hsun Huang 
  Jen-Hsun Huang
  President and Chief Executive Officer
POWER OF ATTORNEY
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints 
Jen-Hsun Huang and Colette M. Kress, and each or any one of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with 
full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any 
and all amendments to this report, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection 
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-facts and agents, and each of 
them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in 
connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming 
all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their or his substitutes or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause 
to be done by virtue hereof.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following 
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

--- Page 195 ---
82
Signature Title Date
/s/ JEN-HSUN HUANG 
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
(Principal Executive Officer) February 28, 2018
Jen-Hsun Huang  
/s/ COLETTE M. KRESS 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer) February 28, 2018
Colette M. Kress  
/s/ MICHAEL J. BYRON 
Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
(Principal Accounting Officer) February 28, 2018
Michael J. Byron
/s/ ROBERT BURGESS Director February 28, 2018
Robert Burgess
/s/ TENCH COXE   Director February 28, 2018
Tench Coxe   
/s/ PERSIS DRELL Director February 28, 2018
Persis Drell
/s/ JAMES C. GAITHER Director February 28, 2018
James C. Gaither   
/s/ DAWN HUDSON Director February 28, 2018
Dawn Hudson
/s/ HARVEY C. JONES  Director February 28, 2018
Harvey C. Jones  
/s/ MICHAEL MCCAFFERY Director February 28, 2018
Michael McCaffery
/s/ MARK L. PERRY  Director February 28, 2018
Mark L. Perry   
/s/ A. BROOKE SEAWELL Director February 28, 2018
A. Brooke Seawell 
/s/ MARK STEVENS  Director February 28, 2018
Mark Stevens   

--- Page 196 ---
CORPORATE INFORMATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Jensen Huang 
Founder, President, and 
Chief Executive Officer  
NVIDIA Corporation
Robert K. Burgess  
Independent Consultant
Tench Coxe 
Managing Director 
Sutter Hill Ventures
Persis S. Drell 
Provost 
Stanford University
James C. Gaither 
Managing Director 
Sutter Hill Ventures
Dawn Hudson 
Chief Marketing Officer 
National Football League
Harvey C. Jones 
Managing Partner 
Square Wave Ventures
Michael G. McCaffery  
Chairman and Managing Director  
Makena Capital Management
Mark L. Perry (Lead Director)  
Independent Consultant
A. Brooke Seawell 
Venture Partner 
New Enterprise Associates
Mark A. Stevens 
Managing Partner 
S-Cubed Capital
FOUNDERS
Jensen Huang 
Founder, President, and 
Chief Executive Officer
Chris A. Malachowsky  
Founder and NVIDIA Fellow
EXECUTIVE TEAM
Colette M. Kress  
Executive Vice President and  
Chief Financial Officer
Jay Puri 
Executive Vice President  
Worldwide Field Operations
Debora Shoquist  
Executive Vice President  
Operations
Timothy S. Teter 
Executive Vice President,  
General Counsel and Secretary
INDEPENDENT 
ACCOUNTANTS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
488 Almaden Boulevard, Suite 1800  
San Jose, California 95110
GENERAL LEGAL COUNSEL
Cooley LLP 
3175 Hanover Street 
Palo Alto, California 94304
TRANSFER AGENT  
AND REGISTRAR
Computershare 
P.O. Box 30170 
College Station, Texas 77842-3170 
www.computershare.com/investor
ANNUAL MEETING
May 16, 2018 at 10:30 a.m.
Online at: 
www.virtualshareholder  
meeting.com/NVIDIA2018
FORM 10-K
A copy of NVIDIA’s Form 10-K filed 
with the SEC will be made available  
to all shareholders at no charge.
The Form 10-K also can be accessed 
through the SEC website at 
www.sec.gov , or through NVIDIA’s  
Investor Relations website at 
www.nvidia.com/investor
To receive a copy by mail 
please contact:
Investor Relations  
NVIDIA Corporation  
2788 San Tomas Expressway  
Santa Clara, California 95051  
ir@nvidia.com
IN MEMORIAM, WILLIAM J. MILLER
We lost a long time member of the NVIDIA family with the passing of director 
William (Bill) J. Miller in December of 2017. His extraordinary contributions to 
NIVIDA included being a member of our board of directors for over two decades, 
serving as a Lead Director, and providing steady leadership and guidance 
throughout the growth of NVIDIA. He was widely renowned for his intelligence, 
curiosity, and competitive determination, and was universally respected for his 
selflessness and sincerity. His hard work, sense of humor and compassion will 
continue to inspire NVIDIA for years to come. He will be greatly missed. 


--- Page 197 ---
© 2018 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Tesla, GeForce Experience, GeForce NOW, NVIDIA 
Ansel, NVIDIA DRIVE, NVIDIA Holodeck, NVIDIA Volta, and TensorRT are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation 
in the U.S. and other countries. MAXQ
®
 is the registered trademark of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.  Other company and product names 
may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners.
NVIDIA CORPORATION 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, California 95051 www.nvidia.com
