# Chevron 2023 - Chevron 2023 To our stockholders letter

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/chevron/chevron_2023_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 100-257
Selected text type: annual-report stockholder letter
Extraction note: Official annual-report stockholder letter signed by Chairman/CEO; financial-report sections excluded.

---

to our stockholders
In a year of geopolitical turmoil and economic
uncertainty, Chevron remained focused on its
purpose: providing the affordable, reliable, ever-
cleaner energy that enables human progress. We
fulfill that purpose by executing our strategy:
leveraging our strengths to safely deliver lower
carbon energy to a growing world.
We believe a resilient energy system must be
capable of enabling economic prosperity, energy
security and environmental protection. This will
be advanced by human ingenuity, innovation,
leadership and action. These beliefs inform our
strategy and decisions.
executing our strategy
Leveraging our strengths starts with the right mix of
high-quality assets. Value is delivered through the
capabilities of our people and technology to meet
customer needs now and in the future.
Our advantaged portfolio delivered annual
production of 3.1 million barrels of oil-equivalent per
day in 2023 – the highest in our history.
To further strengthen that portfolio, in October,
we agreed to acquire Hess Corporation. This
is Chevron’s fourth major deal in recent years,
following the acquisitions of Noble Energy in 2020,
Renewable Energy Group in 2022 and PDC Energy
in 2023.
These actions support our longstanding
financial priorities:
• Grow the dividend consistently: In January 2024,
we raised the per-share dividend 8% to $1.63 per
quarter. And 2023 marked 36 consecutive years of
higher annual dividends per share.
• Invest capital efficiently: We strengthened our
portfolio to grow both traditional and new energy
supplies, advanced major capital projects and
completed several strategic acquisitions.
• Maintain a strong balance sheet: We maintained
our financial strength with a net debt ratio of
7.3% and eliminated more than $4 billion of debt,
including all debt assumed in the PDC acquisition.
• Return excess cash to stockholders: We returned
a record $26.3 billion to stockholders in 2023
through dividends of $11.3 billion and share
repurchases of $14.9 billion.
the energy landscape
In 2023, global energy consumption set new records,
demonstrating the important role of oil and natural
gas in powering the world’s economy. Global oil
consumption reached a new high of ~102 million
barrels per day; U.S. natural gas demand set new
records; and global LNG demand continued to grow.
In 2024, oil and gas consumption are projected to
surpass 2023 records even as significant growth in
new energies is also expected to continue.
Global energy investment totaled a record
~$2.8 trillion in 2023, with just over one-third
directed to traditional energy, including oil and
gas. Annual global energy investment is projected
to reach $3 trillion for the balance of this decade to
meet expected demand growth.
Chevron Corporation 2023 Annual Report
IV

delivering results
Amid this evolving landscape, Chevron
continues to play a leading role in supplying the
energy the world needs and helping to build the
lower carbon energy system of the future.
In 2023, our upstream operations produced
3.1 million oil-equivalent barrels per day,
with upstream capital expenditures of over
$13 billion. We added approximately 980 million
barrels of net oil-equivalent proved reserves,
which equates to approximately 86% of net
oil-equivalent production for the year.
The PDC Energy acquisition added 275,000 net
acres adjacent to Chevron’s existing Colorado
operations in the DJ Basin and an additional
25,000 net acres in the Permian Basin.
In the Permian Basin, production averaged an
all-time high of 783,000 barrels of oil-eq uivalent
per day, a 10% increase from 2022. We expect to
achieve Permian production of 1 million barrels
of oil-equivalent per day in 2025.
In the Gulf of Mexico, we reached first oil at the
Mad Dog 2 project and completed installation of
the floating production unit for the Anchor Field,
an important milestone toward achieving first
production, expected in 2024.

chevron new energies continues to advance lower carbon
solutions to help customers meet their lower carbon ambitions
In Kazakhstan, we achieved mechanical completion
on the Future Growth Project, which is designed
to further increase total daily production from
the Tengiz reservoir and maximize the ultimate
recovery of resources. In Australia, we achieved
first natural gas production from the Gorgon
Stage Two development, and in Israel, we reached
final investment decision to construct a third
gathering pipeline, expected to increase natural gas
production capacity at the Leviathan Field.
Throughout the company, we are implementing
projects designed to reduce the carbon intensity of
our operations. In 2023, we launched a solar power
project with a joint venture partner in New Mexico
to provide renewable energy for our Permian Basin
operations. And we plan to install new technologies
on Chevron’s LNG vessels that are expected to
reduce the carbon intensity of our fleet.
In downstream, we continue to evolve our refining
system to produce lower carbon intensity fuels
and products. We successfully converted the
diesel hydrotreater at our El Segundo Refinery
to process either 100% renewable feedstock or
traditional feedstocks.
We also announced a commercial collaboration with
Corteva Inc. and Bunge to purchase next generation
renewable feedstocks to meet increasing demand
for these products. And the renewable diesel
expansion of our Geismar Biorefinery is on track to
start up this year.
Our Chevron Phillips Chemical Company affiliate
reached final investment decision on a joint venture
with QatarEnergy to build an integrated polymers
facility in Qatar, and continued the construction of a
similar facility in Texas.
Chevron New Energies continues to advance lower
carbon solutions to help customers meet their lower
carbon ambitions and to reduce the carbon intensity
of our operations.
We expanded our Bayou Bend CCS Hub project,
positioning it to be one of the largest carbon
storage projects in the U.S.
We also acquired a majority stake in ACES Delta,
a green hydrogen production and storage hub
in Utah. And we are exploring development of a
hydrogen and ammonia production facility on the
U.S. Gulf Coast and the potential use of hydrogen
fuel cells in powering locomotives.
looking to the future
As we navigate a world of uncertainty, we remain
grounded in the vision, purpose and values of
The Chevron Way. We’ll continue to provide the
energy that powers the world today, as we build
new businesses capable of becoming a larger part
of the energy system that powers tomorrow.
That’s human progress.
Thank you for your support and the continued
trust you place in us.
Sincerely,
Michael K. Wirth
Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer
