# Chevron 2022 - Chevron 2022 To our stockholders letter

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/chevron/chevron_2022_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 83-288
Selected text type: annual-report stockholder letter
Extraction note: Official annual-report stockholder letter signed by Chairman/CEO; financial-report sections excluded.

---

to our stockholders
The events of 2022 demonstrated the vital role
that affordable and reliable energy plays in the
world economy.
The past year’s volatility illustrates the need for an
energy system that balances economic prosperity,
energy security and environmental protection.
Affordable energy is vital for economies to flourish.
Reliable energy is essential for national security.
And we all share a stake in a lower carbon future.
executing our strategy; delivering results
Chevron’s strategy has remained clear: Leverage our
strengths to safely deliver lower carbon energy to a
growing world.
In 2022, we increased investment by more than
75% versus 2021, helping us deliver the highest U.S.
production in our history, at 1.2 million barrels of
oil‑equivalent per day.
Execution of our strategy also enabled delivery on
our financial priorities:
• Grow the dividend consistently
• Invest capital efficiently
• Maintain a strong balance sheet, and
• Repurchase shares steadily
2022 marked the 35th consecutive year of higher
per‑share annual dividends, with the company paying
out $11 billion to stockholders. And we raised the
per‑share dividend another 6% in early 2023. We also
returned an additional $11.25 billion to stockholders
by repurchasing nearly 70 million shares.
Through disciplined investment in high-quality
assets, Chevron achieved a return on capital
employed of more than 20%, the highest since 2011.
We strengthened our industry-leading balance
sheet, reducing our debt ratio to 12.8% and net debt
ratio to 3.3%. Our efficient deployment of capital is
expected to drive the growth of both traditional and
new energy businesses while continuing to deliver
strong returns to investors.
Our financial priorities have remained consistent
for decades. We reward stockholders with
predictable dividend growth, invest for long-term
returns, maintain a strong balance sheet to mitigate
commodity price risk and buy back shares through
the cycle.
the energy landscape
Post‑pandemic demand recovery, coupled with
supply uncertainty, created energy market volatility
during the past year. Geopolitical events threatened
to disrupt energy supply, OPEC spare capacity
declined and inventories were at low levels relative
to demand. At the same time, in much of the world,
strong consumer spending and increased travel
drove an oil demand increase estimated at 2.3
million barrels per day. In 2023 demand is projected
to grow to greater than 101 million barrels per day,
an all‑time high.
Natural gas demand declined slightly last year, as
higher prices related to supply disruptions resulting
from the Russia-Ukraine conflict prompted fuel
substitution and demand destruction, especially in
Europe. Global trade flows of liquefied natural gas
(LNG) pivoted to Europe, keeping LNG capacity
tight. Global natural gas demand is projected to
grow in 2023.
As growth in the global economy drives greater
overall energy demand, investment in lower carbon
energy technologies will also continue to grow.

advancing energy progress
Our capabilities, assets and customer relationships
are distinct advantages. We’re building on these
strengths as we aim to lead in lower carbon intensity
oil, products and natural gas and at the same time
advance new products and solutions that reduce the
carbon intensity of major industries.
In 2022, our upstream operations produced 3 million
oil‑equivalent barrels per day, and we increased
upstream capital expenditures by over 40% relative
to the prior year. We added 1.1 billion barrels of net
oil‑equivalent proved reserves, which equates to
approximately 97% of net oil-equivalent production
for the year.
In the Permian Basin, unconventional production
averaged 707,000 barrels of oil-equivalent
per day, a 16% increase from 2021 and all-time
high. We expect Permian production to grow
nearly 10% in 2023. Additional U.S. production
increases are expected as deepwater projects
in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico come online, including
Mad Dog 2 in 2023, Anchor and Whale in 2024
and Ballymore in 2025. By 2026, Chevron’s
Gulf of Mexico production is expected to
increase ~50% – to around 300,000 barrels of
oil‑equivalent per day.
We continue to reduce upstream greenhouse
gas intensity, which is down 30% from 2016 as
teams around the world advance projects focused
on energy efficiency, flaring reduction and
methane management. Our U.S. Gulf of Mexico
facilities are some of the lowest carbon intensity
producing assets in the world, and our Permian
Basin operations are among the lowest methane
emissions per site of any operator. We plan to
continue making progress through technology
development and partnerships.
Our refining system continues to evolve. We
received permits for a project at our Pasadena
Refinery that is expected to increase light crude
oil throughput capacity to 125,000 barrels per day
in 2024, allowing the refinery to run more equity
crude from the Permian Basin. And we’re doing
capital‑efficient unit conversions to process
renewable feedstocks at our El Segundo and
Pascagoula refineries.
As a result of the acquisition of Renewable Energy
Group, Chevron is now the second largest U.S. bio‑
based diesel producer. We are steadily advancing
toward our guidance of renewable fuels production
capacity of 100,000 barrels per day by 2030.
We’re using existing distribution channels to place
these products in markets where we believe we
can capture the highest margin. And we have a
renewable diesel expansion project underway at
the Geismar biorefinery, which is expected to come
online next year and is projected to increase our
overall capacity by 30%.
Our Chevron Phillips Chemical Company affiliate,
along with Qatar Energy, announced final
investment decision on construction of a $6
billion integrated polymers complex in Ras Laffan
Industrial City, Qatar, and an $8.5 billion integrated
polymers complex in Orange, Texas.
Chevron New Energies remains focused on helping
customers meet their lower carbon ambitions and
reducing the carbon intensity of our operations.
We’re taking actions to advance the development
of larger‑scale carbon capture, utilization and
storage projects.
And we’re making strategic investments to lower
costs, using our own assets to pilot new technologies.
Investments and partnerships with companies like
Svante and Carbon Clean are helping advance the
innovation required to reduce the cost of CO2 capture
at different types of industrial facilities. We have
acquired pore space on the U.S. Gulf Coast that we
believe can store over 1 billion tons of CO2, and are
evaluating other potential storage hubs, including
three assessment permits offshore Australia.
We are leveraging our experience with carbon
offsets through our partnership with Restore the
Earth Foundation. We have collaborated to plant
approximately 3.7 million trees in Louisiana,
reforestation work that is expected to deliver
nature‑based carbon reductions.
Chevron has been investing in hydrogen research
and development for decades, and we continue to
lay the foundation for a high-growth, competitive
business. We are working on multiple projects
across California and the U.S. Gulf Coast to support
future demand. In the Asia-Pacific region, we’re
continuing to work with JERA, a long-time partner
and customer, to explore codeveloping lower
carbon intensity fuels in Australia.
In addition, Chevron is exploring opportunities
to commercialize and scale the next generation
of emerging technologies, including geothermal
energy, to grow lower carbon solutions.
looking to the future
We believe Chevron is well positioned to lead
in both traditional and new energy while safely
delivering higher returns, lower carbon and superior
shareholder value.
We’re at the center of one of the world’s greatest
challenges – meeting the energy needs of a growing
world and doing so in lower carbon ways. We are
confident that by harnessing our human energy, we
will continue to advance energy progress.
Thank you for your support and the continued trust
you place in us.
Sincerely,
Michael K. Wirth
Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer
