# Chevron 2021 - Chevron 2021 To our stockholders letter

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/chevron/chevron_2021_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 123-352
Selected text type: annual-report stockholder letter
Extraction note: Official annual-report stockholder letter signed by Chairman/CEO; table of contents/theme preface and financial-report sections excluded.

---

to our
stockholders
The critical role energy plays in the global
economy was evident in 2021, as world events
demonstrated that affordable, reliable and
ever-cleaner energy remains vital to progress,
prosperity and security. I’m proud of how our
people, under challenging circumstances, met
the needs of customers and markets around
the world.
In addition to meeting the needs of customers,
companies must also reward shareholders.
Chevron delivered a strong financial
performance, achieving best-ever free cash
flow and growing shareholder returns once
again. We are an even stronger company today
than we were just a few years ago.
Our strategy is clear: Leverage our strengths
to deliver lower carbon energy to a growing
world. Our capabilities, assets and customers
are distinct advantages. We’re building on
these strengths as we aim to lead in lower
carbon intensity oil, products and natural gas
and to advance new products and solutions
that reduce the carbon emissions of major
industries – driving energy progress essential
to a dynamic world.
a winning combination
Our focus on “higher returns, lower carbon”
reflects a firm belief in business resilience –
underpinned by operational excellence, cost
discipline and capital discipline – and financial
strength. Both are essential to any organization
aiming to advance meaningful, durable
progress in the modern energy economy.
We’re executing a strategy built on strength
– and one which positions us differently
from others. In 2021, we completed the
transformation of our organization and the
integration of Noble Energy and delivered on
our financial priorities:
• Increased quarterly dividend payout by 4%
• Invested in oil, products, gas and new energy
opportunities with discipline
• Strengthened our balance sheet
• Reinstated share repurchases
We demonstrated the ability to sustain and
grow our business with less capital, generating
higher returns and record free cash flow,
positioning us to better reward stockholders.

taking on tomorrow, today
Future progress will require applying
our world-class capabilities as we aim
to deliver higher returns in a lower
carbon world. Some look to the energy
transition and describe solutions in
the distant future. We’re focused on
making progress today. This means
setting ambitious targets for emissions
intensity reductions, developing
new technologies and working with
customers to develop solutions that
help them lower their emissions.
Having achieved our 2023 carbon
intensity reduction goals, we set new
targets last year. We’re executing
projects to make progress toward our
2050 net zero aspiration for upstream
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. As
part of these efforts, we’re improving
methane detection, rethinking facility
designs, optimizing equipment and
utilizing more renewable power.

Security and reliability of energy supply
emerged as a major theme for energy markets
in 2021 in places like California, Texas and
Europe. Meanwhile, governments representing
approximately 92% of global greenhouse gas
emissions in 2021 have announced net zero
goals or ambitions.
Reaching the ambitions of the Paris Agreement
will require innovation, breakthroughs in
technology, more ambitious government
policy and the ability to attract and forge new
partnerships. No one country, no one industry,
no one company acting alone can meet the
world’s energy and climate goals. That’s why we
intend to be the partner of choice for those with
complementary strengths.
In our Downstream business, we have the
capabilities, assets and supply chains needed
to produce and distribute alternative fuels –
renewable diesel, sustainable aviation fuel,
renewable natural gas and hydrogen. These
offer the potential for scalable, lower carbon
options for critical segments of the economy
that are difficult to decarbonize. Sustainable
aviation fuel, for example, can lower emissions
by up to 80% on a lifecycle basis compared
to traditional jet fuel. It is compatible with
modern aircraft engines and airport fueling
infrastructure. We’ve produced an initial batch
at our El Segundo Refinery that we estimate to
lower emissions by 59% on a lifecycle basis.
In 2021, we announced the formation of
Chevron New Energies, a new organization
dedicated to growing lower carbon businesses
in hydrogen; carbon capture, utilization
and storage; offsets; and other emerging
energies. We’re seeking to accelerate these
lower carbon solutions for our customers, such
as those in the aviation, marine, heavy-duty
transportation and industrial sectors, so they
can achieve their emission reduction goals.
In total, Chevron is planning $10 billion in
lower carbon capital investment between
2021 and 2028 with the goal of reducing the
carbon intensity of our oil, products and gas
business and building new lower carbon
energy businesses.

strengthening the business
Global oil demand rose by 5.5 million barrels
per day in 2021 and is expected to return to
pre-pandemic levels in 2022. The emergence
of new COVID-19 variants in 2021 slowed this
recovery in demand, with air travel and jet fuel
most affected. Global natural gas demand rose
4.1% in 2021, erasing the losses from 2020.
In Upstream, we produced 3.1 million oil-
equivalent barrels per day in 2021, a record high
and a slight increase from 2020. We added
1.3 billion barrels of net oil-equivalent proved
reserves, which equates to approximately 112%
of net oil-equivalent production for the year.
The largest net additions were from assets
in the Permian Basin, the Gulf of Mexico and
Australia. The largest net reductions were from
assets in Kazakhstan, primarily due to higher
prices and their negative effect on reserves.
In Kazakhstan, the Future Growth Project
and Wellhead Pressure Management Project
is 89% complete. In Australia, we sanctioned
the Jansz-Io Compression project, which is
expected to support an important source of
natural gas to customers in countries across
the Asia-Pacific region. We advanced the
Anchor project in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In
addition, we completed the sales of several
conventional Permian Basin properties in the
second half of 2021.
In Downstream & Chemicals, GS Caltex, a 50%
owned affiliate, started up an olefins mixed-
feed cracker and associated polyethylene unit
at its refinery in Yeosu, South Korea, ahead of
schedule and under budget.
We announced an agreement with Neste Oyj
to acquire its Group III base oil business and
brand and completed the acquisition of an
equity interest in American Natural Gas (now
Beyond6) and its network of 60 compressed
natural gas stations. Our 2022 capital
budget excludes expected inorganic capital
of $600 million expected for the formation
of a renewable fuel feedstocks joint venture
with Bunge.
We completed the acquisition of the publicly
held units of Noble Midstream Partners not
already owned by Chevron or our affiliates.

We signed a letter of intent with Gevo to jointly
produce sustainable aviation fuel (SAF). We
tested a batch of SAF with Delta Air Lines and
Google and tracked emissions data using cloud-
based technology. Chevron and Delta will share
results from the SAF pilot with Google to better
understand emissions reporting.
We reached separate agreements to collaborate
with Caterpillar, Cummins and Toyota to
advance our goal of building a commercially
viable, large-scale hydrogen business.
With Enterprise Products Partners, we
announced a framework to evaluate
opportunities for carbon capture, utilization
and storage (CCUS) from our respective
business operations in the U.S. Midcontinent
and Gulf Coast.
And we invested in developing new
technologies for geothermal power, floating
offshore wind turbines and green ammonia.
looking ahead
At Chevron, we look to the future with optimism.
We go forward with confidence in the power
of human creativity, ingenuity and imagination.
We embrace engineering and innovation as a
means to develop new solutions, knowing that
the prospects for the human condition have
never been brighter.
We believe that optimism is the fuel that
accelerates progress. It’s the spark of innovation,
risk-taking and discovery. If we can harness
this powerful force, our human energy, we can
overcome the biggest obstacles, solve the most
difficult problems and achieve our goals.
Thank you for your support and the trust you
place in us.
Sincerely,
Michael K. Wirth
Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer
