# Chevron 2024 - Chevron 2024 To our stockholders letter

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/chevron/chevron_2024_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 110-302
Selected text type: annual-report stockholder letter
Extraction note: Official annual-report stockholder letter signed by Chairman/CEO; financial-report sections excluded.

---

to our stockholders
Events of the past year affirmed the crucial role
energy plays in powering the world economy. Growing
demand for all types of energy – including oil and
natural gas – occurred amid continued instability in the
Middle East and Europe, highlighting the link between
energy and geopolitics.
As nations seek to strengthen their energy security and
ensure the reliable supplies needed to drive economic
productivity, Chevron remains focused on our belief
that affordable, reliable, ever-cleaner energy enables
human progress.
executing our strategy
Our strategy remains consistent: leverage our
strengths to safely deliver lower carbon energy
to a growing world. This begins with a portfolio
of world-class assets, which positions us for profitable
growth, unlocked through the capabilities of our
people, technologies and
strong customer relationships.
Our strategy is underpinned by our long-standing
financial priorities:
• Grow the dividend consistently: In January 2025, we
raised the per-share dividend 5% to $1.71 per quarter.
2024 marked the 37th consecutive year of higher
annual per-share dividend payout.
• Invest capital efficiently: We delivered growth with a
disciplined capital investment of $16.4 billion. These
investments allowed us to deliver
record production in the Permian Basin, while
bringing new projects on line in the United States,
Kazakhstan and West Africa.
• Maintain a strong balance sheet: We finished the
year with a debt ratio of 13.9% and a net debt ratio
of 10.4%, both well below our historical average.
Our balance sheet provides the financial strength
and flexibility to navigate volatility, consistently
reward stockholders and opportunistically
capture value.
• Return excess cash to stockholders: In 2024, we
returned a record $27.0 billion to stockholders,
including $15.2 billion in share repurchases,
extending our track record of repurchasing
shares to 17 of the past 21 years.
the energy landscape
In 2024, global energy demand set record highs.
Oil consumption reached an estimated 103 million
barrels per day and natural gas demand reached an
estimated 4.2 trillion cubic meters. In 2025, global
energy demand is projected to once again set
records, with oil and natural gas remaining essential.
Global energy investment topped an estimated
$3 trillion for the first time in 2024, with just over
one-third directed to traditional energy, including
oil and gas.
Continued investment across the energy system
will be critical, with more than $3 trillion of annual
investment expected through the end of this
decade to meet projected growth in demand.
delivering profitable growth
Our upstream business achieved another
record year of production, driven by the
Permian and Denver-Julesburg (DJ) basins.
We produced more than 3.3 million net barrels
of oil-equivalent (boe) per day in 2024, up 7%
from 2023 – and the highest in our history.
Permian Basin production averaged an
all-time high of 921,000 net boe per day, a
nearly 18% increase from 2023, accounting for
more than half of our total U.S. production of
nearly 1.6 million net boe per day. We expect
Permian production to reach 1 million boe
per day in 2025.
Project milestones achieved in 2024 set
Chevron on a trajectory to deliver profitable
future growth. Technological and engineering
innovation is enabling Chevron’s Gulf of
America operations, where our Anchor project
achieved first oil. This breakthrough was
made possible by safely deploying technology
that can handle pressures up to 20,000
pounds per square inch to unlock resources
previously difficult to access.

In August, we achieved first water injection
at our St. Malo field, making it Chevron’s first
waterflood project in the deepwater Wilcox trend.
The project is expected to add approximately
175 million barrels of oil-equivalent to the St. Malo
field’s gross ultimate recovery.
We also expanded waterflood operations at our
Tahiti facility. The sixth-largest asset in the Gulf
of America by total oil-equivalent output to date,
Tahiti recently surpassed 500 million gross barrels
of oil-equivalent cumulative production. With
incremental investment, Tahiti could continue
producing beyond 2040.
In Kazakhstan, Tengizchevroil (TCO), Chevron’s
50%-owned affiliate, completed the Wellhead
Pressure Management Project (WPMP) designed to
optimize the producing field. And in January 2025,
TCO started oil production at the Future Growth
Project (FGP), designed to add 260,000 barrels of
oil per day to production and ramp up total output
to 1 million barrels of oil-equivalent per day.
Over the past year, we continued to expand our
exploration portfolio by adding new positions
in Australia, Angola, Brazil, Equatorial Guinea,
Namibia and Uruguay.
We marked the 70-year anniversary of our
partnership with Angola by achieving first gas on
the Sanha Lean Gas Connection project, which
will provide secure supply to the Angola Liquefied
Natural Gas facility.
Our transaction with Hess Corporation received
approval from Hess’ stockholders and clearance
by the Federal Trade Commission. We remain
confident ongoing arbitration proceedings will
confirm Hess’ position.
In 2024, we took action to optimize our portfolio,
selling the Athabasca Oil Sands and Duvernay shale
assets in Canada, North Slope assets in Alaska,
and we withdrew from Myanmar. We also sold
our assets in Congo in early 2025.
In downstream, we completed a retrofit of our
refinery in Pasadena, Texas, allowing Chevron
to process more equity crude from the Permian
Basin, supply more products to our customers in
the U.S. Gulf Coast and realize synergies with our
Pascagoula, Mississippi, refinery.
advancing lower carbon solutions
In 2024, we completed projects and operational
changes designed to abate over 700,000 tonnes
of carbon dioxide-equivalent annually from
our operations.
Chevron continues to advance lower
carbon-intensity fuel solutions, including the
construction of an oilseed processing plant in
Louisiana through our joint venture, Bunge
Chevron Ag Renewables LLC and an expansion
project at our Geismar, Louisiana, biorefinery. The
Geismar expansion is expected to start up in 2025,
increasing renewable diesel nameplate capacity
from 7,000 to 22,000 barrels per day.
We drilled onshore and offshore test wells at
Bayou Bend on the U.S. Gulf Coast and expanded
our carbon dioxide storage portfolio by adding
2.6 million acres offshore Western Australia.
Our ACES Delta green hydrogen project in Utah is
expected to begin commercial operation in 2025.
This large-scale hydrogen project aims to convert
water into hydrogen, using renewable energy
and utilizing salt caverns for dispatchable energy
storage for power generation.
In January 2025, we announced a partnership
to develop scalable power solutions for U.S.
data centers to run on U.S. natural gas to provide affordable, reliable energy to support
AI advancements. These projects are considering
flexible designs to potentially incorporate CCUS,
renewables or other lower carbon-intensity
enhancements in the future.
looking to the future
At Chevron, we’re proud of the role we play as a
global leader in energy. Our capabilities, assets and
relationships are helping customers, industries and
nations achieve their goals for economic prosperity,
energy security and environmental protection.
As energy needs grow and geopolitical volatility
continues, oil and natural gas will remain vital to
people and markets around the world.
We look ahead with optimism and are grateful
for the continued trust you place in us.
Sincerely,
Michael K. Wirth
Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer
