# Nvidia 2023 - NVIDIA 2023 CEO/stakeholder letter

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/nvidia/nvidia_2023_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 238-677
Selected text type: CEO/stakeholder letter
Extraction note: Official annual-review letter signed by Jensen Huang.

---

Dear NVIDIANs
and Stakeholders,
We had a tough 2022. Our business
was affected by economic headwinds,
geopolitical tension, and a product
supply chain that swung from severe
shortage to excess. NVIDIANs rose to
tackle each challenge while inventing
new technologies and capabilities
that position us at the center of
the most exciting opportunities
in the history of computing.
Data center AI and accelerated
workloads are continuing to skyrocket.
Developers are shifting to NVIDIA
accelerated computing as the four-
decade-long exponential scaling of CPU-
based general-purpose computing ends.
ChatGPT, the AI application heard
around the world, showcased the
abilities of generative AI and its
potential to drive industrial productivity
and advance the world's most significant
scientific challenges. Generative AI
has created a sense of urgency in
companies everywhere to reimagine
their products and business models.
Generative AI is also accelerating
industrial digitalization. The largest
industries, from auto manufacturing to
pharmaceutical, will be reinvented with
generative AI and become some of the
most advanced technology industries.
NVIDIA's body of work is reshaping
the future of computing.
Accelerated Computing …
Accelerated computing is not easy—
it requires full-stack optimization
from chip architecture, systems, and
acceleration libraries, to refactoring
the applications. Each application
domain requires optimized stacks—
from graphics, imaging, and particle or
fluid dynamics to data processing and
machine learning. NVIDIA pioneered
accelerated computing by extending
the GPU, a 3D graphics accelerator,
into a parallel computing accelerator.
NVIDIA acceleration libraries build on
CUDA, and all NVIDIA GPUs are CUDA-
compatible. Four million developers
are working with CUDA, and that
number is expanding. It took 12 years
to reach 2 million developers, but
we've doubled that number in the last
two and a half years. CUDA has been
downloaded more than 40 million times.
A wealth of accelerated applications
attracts end users, which creates a
large market for cloud service providers
and computer makers to serve. This in
turn affords billions in R&D to fuel its
growth. NVIDIA has established the
accelerated computing virtuous cycle.
We help developers achieve incredible
speedups through full-stack invention,
from the chips and systems to the
algorithms and applications they
run. These algorithms are optimized
and packaged into acceleration
libraries, where they help millions
of developers across industries
solve complex problems. NVIDIA has
hundreds of acceleration libraries
that form our core platforms: NVIDIA
RTX for graphics, NVIDIA HPC for
scientific computing, NVIDIA AI for
data science and artificial intelligence,
NVIDIA DRIVE for autonomous
vehicles, and NVIDIA Omniverse for
industrial digitalization applications.
We now offer 300 acceleration libraries
and 400 AI models, with 100 added or
updated in the past year alone, including
cuQuantum for quantum computing,
cuOpt for combinatorial optimization,
and the new cuLitho, which addresses
the single largest computation workload
in chip design and manufacturing:
computational lithography. The product
of close collaborations for over four
years with TSMC, ASML, and Synopsys,
cuLitho can reduce mask creation time
from two weeks to overnight and enable
500 NVIDIA DGX H100 systems to
achieve the same work as 40,000 CPU
systems. That’s 1/8 of the space needed
and 1/9 of the power to achieve current
results with NVIDIA systems. Most
importantly, it provides the chip industry
a platform for the next leap into the next
chip design and manufacturing miracle.
It operates near the limits of physics:
high-numerical aperture extreme
ultraviolet lithography. This process
will require radical algorithms such as
inverse lithography and AI approaches
for continued scaling to 2nm and beyond.
… Is Sustainable Computing
The exponential growth trend in CPU
computing performance coupled
with only moderate power and cost
increases is no more. Data centers are
already about 1-2% of global electricity
consumption and that consumption
is expected to continue to grow. This
continued growth is not sustainable
for operating budgets and our planet.
For computing to be sustainable, data
centers must accelerate every workload
possible. NVIDIA pioneered accelerated
computing and has built a large
installed base and a rich ecosystem
of developers and applications
available everywhere. Accelerated
computing is sustainable computing,
bending the energy consumption
trendline away from runaway growth
and toward a sustainable future.
The iPhone Moment For AI
ChatGPT has taken the world by
storm. Hundreds of millions of people
worldwide have been captivated
by its abilities. Companies in new
and established industries are
racing to explore its potential.
The foundation of ChatGPT is a large
language model (LLM). According
to ChatGPT itself, an LLM is:
“A large language model refers to a type
of artificial intelligence (AI) model trained
on a vast amount of text data to generate
human-like text responses. Language
models understand and generate human
language, and they can perform a wide
range of tasks, such as answering
questions, summarizing text, translating
languages, and generating text content.
“LLMs, such as GPT-3 (Generative Pre-
trained Transformer 3), are known for
their high capacity to learn from large
datasets and generate coherent and
contextually relevant text. These models
use deep neural networks with multiple
layers to capture complex patterns
and representations in language data.
LLMs can understand the nuances of
language, including grammar, syntax,
context, and meaning, and can generate
text that is often difficult to distinguish
from text written by humans.
“LLMs have many potential applications
in various domains, including
natural language processing (NLP),
conversational AI, content generation,
language translation, and more.”
LLMs can learn the representation of
information that has structure from
human language, music, images, and
even proteins and chemicals. The
potential of generative AI models to
amplify human productivity is incredible.
Impacts will be felt in industries ranging
from healthcare and financial services,
to design, art, and entertainment.
LLMs are trained with NVIDIA DGX
AI supercomputers. An LLM neural
network model with tens of billions of
artificial neurons learns by processing
trillions of bytes of data. This requires

thousands of GPUs connected by high-
speed networking running in unison.
A New Computing
Era Has Arrived
Throughout history, we have witnessed
the emergence of various computing
eras driven by the convergence
of multiple technologies.
From the advent of personal
computers, to the internet, cloud,
and mobile computing, and now
artificial intelligence, each wave has
expanded the realm of computing.
Each has narrowed the technology
divide, putting computers, the
instrument of knowledge, into
the hands of more people.
The PC took over 20 years from the
launch of the IBM PC to reach a billion
people and transform education and
businesses in every industry. Only
five years after the iPhone launch,
smartphones, with simple-to-use touch
interfaces and powerful computing in
the cloud, put incredible applications
in the hands of a billion people.
AI is a new wave of computing that
requires no programming skills and is
prompted in plain human language to
perform incredible, seemingly intelligent
tasks. The remarkable ease of use let
ChatGPT reach over 100 million users
in just a few months, making it the
fastest-growing application in history.
So, what’s next?
Like autonomous vehicles that require
rigorous functional and active safety
technologies, generative AI systems
must be supported by technologies
for safety and trustworthiness.
Researchers and industry are creating
technologies that align models to values
and principles, augment models with
factual knowledge bases, and provide
guardrails to limit models within the
operating domains of use. Although
safety and trustworthiness remain
vast domains for ongoing research,
well-regarded tools, methods, and
practices are already proliferating.
And while general-purpose AI continues
to advance, companies can build custom
LLMs specialized for their industry.
Learning from their proprietary data,
companies in healthcare, financial
services, retail, manufacturing, and
more will train generative AI models to
automate their companies and tasks
that are valuable to their customers.
NVIDIA DGX and AI
Cloud Within The
World’s Best Clouds
Applying generative AI to each
industry requires domain expertise
and training data, LLMs and safety
systems, AI supercomputing
infrastructure, and expertise.
NVIDIA is building a new AI service
that helps companies build their own
LLM AI factories that produce and
refine their company’s intelligence.
The service consists of the
NVIDIA AI Foundations custom
LLM model-making system, the
NVIDIA DGX AI supercomputing
infrastructure, NVIDIA AI inference
platforms, and experts to assist.
These services and platforms can be
available in a company’s on-premises
data centers or through the world’s
leading cloud service providers.
NVIDIA AI Foundations is a cloud
service—a foundry—for building custom
language models and generative
AI. It is comprised of language,
visual, and biology model-making
services. Customers can use NVIDIA
AI Foundations to create, refine, and
operate custom LLMs and generative
AI trained with their proprietary data
and for their domain-specific tasks.
The pharmaceutical industry is a top
focus of NVIDIA AI Foundations. It can
cost $2 billion and take 10-15 years of
research to bring a new drug to market.
Using our service and working with our
researchers, customers can use our
pretrained and optimized biology LLMs
to accelerate early-stage drug discovery
workflows from months to weeks.
Amgen, AstraZeneca, Insilico, Evozyne,
Innophore, and Alchemab Therapeutics
are all early-access users. Generative
AI will transform drug discovery.

GeForce Revolutionized AI.
AI Revolutionizes GeForce
GeForce for gaming is NVIDIA’s
technology driving force. The technology
demand to create realistic and
interactive virtual worlds is insatiable.
And the gaming market continues
to expand. From a zero-billion-dollar
market 30 years ago, there are over
a billion PC gamers today. Someday,
nearly everyone will be a gamer. And
games will be incredibly realistic.
The technologies necessary are ray
tracing, physics simulations, digital
humans, and generative AI—the
technologies that NVIDIA GPUs enable.
The future of gaming started 12 years
ago when AI researchers discovered the
math processing prowess of NVIDIA
GeForce gaming GPUs with CUDA-
accelerated computing to realize the
effectiveness of deep learning. This
ignited the big bang of modern AI.
Coming full circle, AI is now
revolutionizing the GPU, computer
graphics, and gaming technologies.
We introduced programmable shaders
a quarter century ago, revolutionizing
3D graphics. Five years ago, we
launched NVIDIA RTX, opening a new
frontier. This year, we introduced the
next breakthrough in AI-powered
graphics: DLSS 3. It is one of our
greatest neural rendering inventions.
DLSS 3 generates entirely new frames
rather than just pixels, boosting
performance over 4X vs. rendering.
Imagine an AI model that runs on
GeForce but learns to create beautiful
images on a DGX AI supercomputer.
DLSS 3 learned to generate seven out
of every eight pixels in a scene. The
speedup, image quality improvement,
and energy saved are incredible.
Every NVIDIA RTX gamer can enjoy
the automated pixel-prediction
capability of a generative AI that
NVIDIA DGX AI supercomputers
trained—learn once, save energy for
hundreds of millions of gamers.
DLSS 3 is a big deal in many ways.
Neural rendering is an entirely new
way of doing computer graphics and
is the technology for the next leap
in virtual world generation. But it is
also direct evidence that accelerated
computing and AI are the ways to
sustainable computing for the planet.
Like NVIDIA DGX and NVIDIA AI, NVIDIA
RTX has leaped into the cloud. This year,
we unveiled the GeForce NOW Ultimate
membership tier, delivering GeForce
RTX 4080-class performance with
NVIDIA Reflex, ray tracing, and DLSS
3. With 25 million members worldwide
in 100+ countries, GeForce NOW serves
more games to more countries than
any other gaming service. NVIDIA
and Microsoft signed a 10-year deal
to bring the Xbox PC game library to
GeForce NOW. Members will be able
to stream top game franchises such
as Halo, Minecraft, Elder Scrolls, and
other titles from Bethesda, Mojang
Studios, and Activision, pending the
closure of Microsoft’s acquisition.
Omniverse: Connecting Our
Physical And Digital Worlds
The largest and most impactful
industries make and operate physical
things—from electronic devices, cars,
buildings, factories, warehouses to
luxury goods and life-saving medicine.
They make physical things but want
to build and operate them digitally. To
do so, a new type of operating system
that is physically based is needed—one
that understands the laws of physics.
NVIDIA Omniverse, our platform for
industrial digitalization, builds virtual
representations of physical things
and assets—creating digital twins
and connecting digital and physical
worlds. Omniverse enables industries
grounded in physical processes to
become software-defined, realize
unified digitalization, and connect
large, highly skilled teams.
This year, we announced Omniverse
Cloud, making it easier to develop,
deploy, and operate industrial
digitalization applications from nearly
anywhere, on almost any device.
NVIDIA is partnering with Microsoft
to bring Omniverse to hundreds of

millions of Microsoft 365 and Azure
users. Omniverse Cloud connects
to the Microsoft 365 productivity
suite, including Teams, OneDrive, and
SharePoint, and to Azure IoT Digital
Twins services. This partnership will
help connect the world’s industries
to Omniverse Cloud—hosted
in Azure and benefiting from
Microsoft’s rich storage, security,
applications, and services portfolio.
Omniverse can simulate the
best possible factory and store
layouts before laying the first
brick. Utilizing digital twins reduces
last-minute surprises, change
orders, and plant opening delays.
Virtual factory integration can save
billions for the world’s factories.
Some of the most significant companies
in the world are using Omniverse
to digitalize their operations.
 › Amazon Robotics is using Omniverse
to build AI-enabled digital twins of
its warehouses to better optimize
warehouse design and flow and train
more intelligent robotic solutions.
 › Lowe’s is using Omniverse to design,
build, and operate digital twins of
its stores to optimize operations.
 › BMW Group is using Omniverse to
build a fully functioning factory digital
twin before building it in the real world.
 › Mercedes-Benz and Jaguar Land Rover
are both using Omniverse to generate
scenarios to test and validate the next
generation of autonomous vehicles.
Driving Automotive Growth
Generative AI and digitalization are
reshaping the $3 trillion automotive
industry, from design and engineering
to manufacturing, autonomous
driving, and customer experience.
NVIDIA is at the epicenter of this
industrial transformation, with a
$14 billion automotive design win
pipeline over the next six years.
Developing self-driving cars is one of our
most complex AI challenges. It requires
two computers: an AI factory in the
data center refining and testing the AI
software and the AI computer in the car.
Hundreds of partners across the
automotive ecosystem are now
developing software on NVIDIA
DRIVE, including 20 of the top 30
manufacturers building new energy
vehicles, many of the industry’s tier-
one manufacturers and top software
makers, plus eight of the largest 10
trucking and robotaxi companies.
Looking Ahead
Accelerated computing and AI
have arrived. We must accelerate
every possible workload to reclaim
power so that computing can be
sustainable. Generative AI has created
a new computing platform, like the
PC, internet, and mobile cloud. More
than 40,000 companies are already
running on NVIDIA to speed up, scale
up, and unlock previously impossible-
to-solve problems. And our new DGX
Cloud partnerships with the world’s
leading cloud service providers,
NVIDIA AI Foundation custom model-
making foundry, and Omniverse
Cloud services will further accelerate
our engagement with the world’s
industries as they race to reinvent
themselves in this new computing era.
We faced many storms last year
but did magnificent work through
it all. I could not be prouder of
our employees and more excited
to build the future together.
Jensen Huang
CEO and Founder, NVIDIA
May 2023
