# Nvidia 2018 - NVIDIA 2018 CEO/stakeholder letter

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/nvidia/nvidia_2018_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 155-423
Selected text type: CEO/stakeholder letter
Extraction note: Official annual-review letter signed by Jensen Huang. 4 Unicode fi ligature characters (U+FB01) replaced with ASCII "fi" equivalents (field, artificial, first, benefit).

---

DEAR NVIDIANS AND STAKEHOLDERS,
GPU COMPUTING
HAS TAKEN HOLD.
What began 25 years ago with our work in
computer graphics has evolved to address
some of the most important technological
trends the world has ever seen. From
gaming to AI and from self-driving cars
to supercomputers, we approach all of
our work and exploration with a common
philosophy: focus on the hardest problems
that only we can solve. We’re enabling
the most demanding computer users
in the world—scientists, designers,
artists, and gamers—to do their life’s
work. Our computers let them create
and see the future. To them, NVIDIA
has built a time machine.

Revenue for the year was up 41% to reach
a record $9.71 billion, and gross margins
expanded to 59.9%. GAAP earnings per
share were $4.82, up 88%. And we
returned $1.25 billion to shareholders
through dividends and stock repurchases.
Our gaming business grew 36% this year
to a record $5.51 billion. Gaming will be
the world’s largest entertainment medium
someday, with ever-expanding genres,
rich characters and stories, and incredible
production values. Gaming can be a sport,
an adventure, a puzzle, a battle, or just a
way to connect with friends in a virtual
world. Gaming is essentially virtual reality
and the possibilities are endless. We
extended our leadership in gaming with
new innovations like Max-Q, a design
approach to make GeForce gaming laptops
amazingly thin and quiet; GeForce
Experience ShadowPlay Highlights, which
automatically records and shares players’
heroic moments; and GeForce NOW, a
cloud-based service that turns ordinary
laptops into powerful gaming machines.
NVIDIA is the largest computer graphics
company in the world, seeing double-digit
growth in our professional visualization
business and advancing the field with
our introduction of the Holodeck virtual
reality design studio. We imagine a future
where products will be entirely designed
in Holodeck, with collaborators beaming
in from remote locations as artificial
intelligence robots assist them. For
the 10th consecutive year, every movie
nominated for Best Visual Effects at
the Academy Awards was created
using NVIDIA.
AI fueled our datacenter business,
which grew 133% to reach $1.93 billion.
In the near future, software development
will require large supercomputers that
are continuously training software to be
smarter and do more. The AI software
stack is essentially a giant learning
machine running software that writes
new software. Volta is the first GPU
created for these AI supercomputers,
and it reduces the learning cycle from
days to hours. Its new Tensor Core
architecture boosts deep learning
performance by almost 10 times.
Volta-based Tesla V100 accelerators
are now available through every major
computer maker and have been chosen
by every major cloud service provider
to deliver AI and high-performance
computing. We also introduced the
breakthrough TensorRT3 neural machine
optimizing compiler to deploy trained
models at gigantic scale in cloud
datacenters. The combination of NVIDIA
Tesla V100 and TensorRT lets AI
developers use the NVIDIA architecture
from end-to-end for fast training and
cloud-scale deployment.
Someday, every car will be autonomous.
Machines that move—from cars, taxis,
trucks, shuttles, delivery bots, and
drones, to agriculture and construction
equipment—will operate autonomously
or help drivers operate more safely and
easily. We created the NVIDIA DRIVE
autonomous vehicle platform to enable
the $10 trillion transportation industry
to realize this future. Doing this at a global
scale is an incredible challenge—one
that NVIDIA is perfectly suited to tackle.
We create the autonomous car computer,
the “brains” of the vehicle, from processor
to AI and robotics software. We create
the development environment, from
AI training to virtual reality driving
simulation. NVIDIA DRIVE is the most
complex computer system we have ever
built, and NVIDIA builds the most complex
computer systems in the world. Solving
this challenge will greatly benefit society.
In all, more than 320 automakers, ride-
hailing services, startups, mapping
companies, sensor makers, and research
universities—in every geography—have
adopted NVIDIA DRIVE to build the
autonomous future.
Our ultimate purpose is to build a
company that makes a great and positive
impact on the world. We strive to make
singular and valuable contributions to
human progress. We play the long game,
balancing short-term profits and the
dream of building a wonderful future. We
take pride in our social and environmental
responsibility. But beyond responsibility,
we are truly joyed and privileged to care
for our employees and families, our
partners, and our communities who make
it possible for us to do our life’s work.
Our company regularly receives top
marks on prominent lists of the most
socially and environmentally responsible
companies, including Fortune’s Best
Places to Work, the Corporate Equality
Index, and the Dow Jones Sustainability
Index. We debuted in Fiscal Year 2018 on
the Global100 and Bloomberg’s Gender
Equality Index.
We innovate to conserve energy in
everything we do. To improve the
environment as we expand, we designed
our corporate headquarters building
to use natural light while moderating
the need for cooling. The GPU computing
technology we pioneered can improve
energy efficiency by 10 times for
datacenters that are consuming electricity
at the rate of many cities. Our work in
self-driving cars could be our largest
contribution to the environment in the
long term, as autonomous driving
increases the utilization of cars and
reduces overall energy consumption
and carbon emissions.
Within NVIDIA, we believe a diverse,
inclusive culture enables us to innovate,
create groundbreaking products, and
build one of the world’s great technology
companies. It all starts with attracting
diverse talent and creating an environment
where the best people can do their life’s
work. We want to create a company where
great people can enrich their lives and
build their families. This year, we greatly
expanded our parenting benefits to
fund adoptions, in vitro fertilization,
and egg freezing.
We have more than 40 offices around the
world and are grateful for the support
of these local communities. NVIDIANs
are passionate about giving back to
their communities, with a long history
of volunteerism and strong support for
fighting cancer and improving education.
Our philanthropic giving this year, which
includes charitable contributions and
community partnerships, exceeded
$6 million.
Our fully employee-governed NVIDIA
Foundation invested more than $4
million to advance the fight against
cancer through its Compute the Cure
initiative. And last year, our employees
raised more than $550,000 for cancer
organizations around the world.
Our new Techsplorer program, launched
at GTC 2017, introduces underserved
youth to AI through hands-on design
challenges and encourages them to
explore STEM careers. We’ve already
reached nearly 2,500 students near
our Silicon Valley headquarters.
Twenty-five years ago we set out to solve
3D graphics and virtual reality for video
games, because it would be one of the
great, and fun, computing challenges of
all time. We believed it would lead us to
discover new technologies and build an
engineering machine of great capability.
We were right. The challenges of
simulating the virtual worlds of video
games share much in common with the
challenges a scientist faces in simulating
molecules or discovering new materials.
Today, we’ve greatly advanced this new
computing model called GPU computing.
It stands at the intersection of computer
graphics, high performance computing,
and AI—technologies that promise to
fundamentally reshape trillion-dollar
industries like transportation, healthcare,
and manufacturing, and foster entirely
new industries that are just taking root.
We have a responsibility to make sure that
we keep this platform vibrant and make
it available to all. The responsibility of
carrying that torch is deeply ingrained in
the people who make up NVIDIA, and the
success we’ve had to-date reminds us of
the importance of our work and fuels our
path to the next grand challenge.
It’s going to be an incredible ride.
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES GRAND CHALLENGES
Jensen Huang
CEO and Founder, NVIDIA
April 2018
