# Nvidia 2022 - NVIDIA 2022 CEO/stakeholder letter

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/nvidia/nvidia_2022_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 220-587
Selected text type: CEO/stakeholder letter
Extraction note: Official annual-review letter signed by Jensen Huang.

---

DEAR NVIDIANS
AND STAKEHOLDERS,
NVIDIA had an excellent year. Full-year
revenue was a record $26.91 billion, up
61 percent from $16.68 billion a year ago.
Gross margins expanded to 64.9 percent,
and earnings per share were $3.85, up
123 percent from a year ago. We
returned $399 million during the year
to shareholders through quarterly
cash dividends.
Our top priority remains the continued
expansion of NVIDIA accelerated
computing—creating software, systems,
and chips to serve new markets. NVIDIA
grows through any combination of these.
New chips open new markets. For
example, the new Orin robotics
processor chip is the central computer
for a new generation of logistics robots,
delivery robots, and self-driving cars,
trucks, and taxis. And Grace is a new
CPU architecture designed for ultra-fast
data processing, the essential operation
of AI and machine learning. Grace is our
entry into the CPU market.
New software opens new markets.
NVIDIA has sped up computing a million
times over the past decade by GPU-
accelerating algorithms, optimizing
across the full stack, and scaling across
the entire data center. NVIDIA SDKs, or
software development kits, capture the
complex computer science and
engineering into expertly crafted CUDA
libraries. Our cuQuantum SDK running
on DGX computers is the ideal simulation
system for quantum computing,
chemistry, and cybersecurity
researchers. And while quantum
computing may still be a few decades
away, NVIDIA cuOpt is a real-time
combinatorial complexity planner that
operations, logistics, and delivery
services can use today.
NVIDIA SDKs are the heart and soul of
accelerated computing. New SDKs
connect us to new opportunities. NVIDIA
has hundreds of SDKs that form several
core platforms: NVIDIA RTX for graphics,
NVIDIA HPC for scientific computing,
NVIDIA AI for data science and AI, NVIDIA
DRIVE for autonomous vehicles, and
NVIDIA Omniverse, our physically
accurate simulation platform for
developing and operating automated
fleets of cars and trucks, and automating
places like warehouses and factories.
Starting this year, we are offering
enterprise software license and support
models for NVIDIA AI, NVIDIA DRIVE, and
NVIDIA Omniverse.
New software, new systems, and new
chips can create markets. Machine
learning algorithms developed on
TensorFlow and PyTorch, and processed
by NVIDIA AI running on our DGX
systems with Tensor Core GPUs,
revolutionized AI. Omniverse running on
OVX systems with NVIDIA Spectrum
networking chips and systems will be
added to NVIDIA’s platform to open the
next wave of AI.
We’ve expanded our platform in every
dimension and direction—more
developers, more applications, and new
customers in new industries. NVIDIA
now serves over three million developers
and is available from every major
computer maker and cloud, and has been
adopted by over 25,000 companies in 100
trillion dollars' worth of industries.
NVIDIA GTC 2022 LAUNCHED
LARGEST-EVER WAVE OF
NEW PRODUCTS
We built NVIDIA like a computing stack,
or neural network, in four layers:
hardware, system software, platform
software, and applications. Each layer is
open to computer makers, service
providers, and developers to integrate
with their offerings.
We innovated across every layer this
year. At our virtual developers
conference GTC 2022, we announced
new GPU, CPU, and networking chips
and systems—our largest rollout to date.
The Hopper-architecture-based NVIDIA
H100 GPU has arrived, and its
performance is unbelievable. It's the new
engine of the world's AI infrastructure.
At four petaflops of AI power, H100
performance is an order of magnitude
beyond that of our NVIDIA Ampere-based
A100. Designed to support the next wave
of AI adoption, it introduces a set of
breakthrough security features like GPU
isolation and confidential computing,
dynamic programming to speed complex
science problems, direct memory
connections, and high-speed networking.
We also introduced the Grace CPU
Superchip—our entry into CPUs. With an
unbelievable one-terabyte-per-second
memory bandwidth, Grace moves and
processes mountains of data. It's ideal
for AI infrastructure, cloud, and
scientific computing.
In addition to GPU and CPU news, we
announced NVIDIA Spectrum-4—the
world's first 800 Gbps networking
switch. With Spectrum for Ethernet,
Quantum for InfiniBand, NVLink for
multi-node DGX, and our DOCA
networking, storage, and security
infrastructure software stack, NVIDIA is
ready to build out the world's AI
infrastructure, from end to end.
NVIDIA GPU, CPU, and networking
systems are some of the industry's most
advanced technologies and form the
foundation of our computing platform.
We now have more than 450 NVIDIA AI
libraries and software development kits
to serve industries such as gaming,
design, quantum computing, AI, 5G/6G,
and robotics.

It was a breakthrough year for NVIDIA
accelerated computing.
Grace CPU Superchip
NVIDIA Hopper H100

NVIDIA RTX REINVENTS
COMPUTER GRAPHICS,
BLURRING REAL AND
PHYSICAL WORLDS
Computer graphics is the driving force
of NVIDIA. Through the decades, we've
repeatedly reinvented computer
graphics—the GPU, programmable
shading, material simulation, and, in
2018, RTX real-time ray tracing and AI
image synthesis.
The arrival of NVIDIA RTX real-time ray
tracing, approximating the physics of
light and materials to generate
photorealistic virtual worlds, accelerated
the industry to warp speed and pulled us
all 10 years into the future.
Today, RTX is everywhere and
reinventing every application of 3D
graphics. More than 250 games and apps
use RTX, from Fortnite  to Adobe
Photoshop. Architecture walkthroughs,
product design, product configurators,
and virtual showrooms are now
photorealistic. NVIDIA RTX made
real-time photorealistic 3D graphics
possible. The line between computer
graphics and reality, and therefore the
digital and physical worlds, will become
increasingly blurred.
THE AI INFRASTRUCTURE
OF AI COMPANIES
Fast computers running AI algorithms
can learn patterns and relationships
from data to write software that was
previously impossible. Knowledge of this
new way of developing software and
products is spreading quickly.
Companies from nearly every industry
are processing and refining their raw
data to make AI software. They are
manufacturers of intelligence, and data
centers are their factories.
We work with over 25,000 companies,
applying AI to reinvent their industries—
from consumer internet companies to
those in healthcare, manufacturing,
logistics, retail, financial services,
energy, design, and transportation.
AI is the most impactful technology force
of our time. We are all hands on deck to
advance the NVIDIA AI platform, solve
new problems, and make AI more
accessible—from PC, cloud, enterprise
data centers, the industrial edge, robotic
systems, and scientific supercomputers.
THE NEXT WAVE OF AI

This year, bringing Omniverse to market
was a huge achievement and opened a
new chapter for NVIDIA. Omniverse is a
3D simulation engine to build and
connect virtual worlds. In Omniverse,
designers can collaborate with other
designers, and even AIs and robots, to
create virtual worlds. Digital twins of
robots can hone their skills in virtual
worlds before performing tasks in the
physical world.
An automobile manufacturer like BMW
can build and test a new factory with a
digital twin before laying the first brick
and configuring the first assembly line.
Once the actual factory is operating,
logistics planners will use the digital
twin to prototype new process flows and
software. That software can be deployed
into the physical factory when
optimizations demonstrate improved
efficiency. Digital twins will be essential
to designing and operating future
software-defined plants.
Large industrial companies have already
created fully operational digital twins in
Omniverse. Siemens Energy is
developing a digital twin for predictive
maintenance at power plants that could
help save utility providers an estimated
$1.7 billion a year. Ericsson is simulating
the interplay between 5G cells and the
environment. PepsiCo is using digital
twins to improve the efficiency and
sustainability of its more than 600
distribution centers. Amazon is using
digital twins to optimize the design and
flow of its warehouses and train more
intelligent robotic solutions.
The Omniverse ecosystem has expanded
quickly in its first year. More than 80
software tools connect to Omniverse,
across design and rendering, robotics,
digital twin, and industrial automation
ecosystems. Omniverse has been
downloaded 150,000 times by individual
creators and evaluated by over 700
companies. And now, Omniverse Cloud
adds a one-click capability to reach tens
of millions of designers, creators,
roboticists, and AI researchers.
Nearly 30 years of NVIDIA graphics,
physics, simulation, AI, and computing
expertise made Omniverse possible.
We now have the engine for the next
wave of AI.
FESTO Physical Model FESTO Omniverse Digital Twin

ROBOTIC SYSTEMS—AI
AUTOMATES THE WORLD
Today's AI centers on perception and
pattern recognition. AI can recognize an
image, understand speech, suggest a
song, or recommend an item to buy.
A new wave of AI is dawning in which
robots perceive the environment, reason
about where they are, where they need to
go and what they need to do, and then
develop a plan to do it.
Robots will take many forms, physical
and digital. Some will stock shelves in
warehouses or build cars. Others will be
medical instruments that integrate
real-time sensor data and assist with
medical procedures. Self-driving cars
are robotic vehicles with digital robots
inside, riding along with us, helping with
driving and navigation tasks.
NVIDIA Isaac is our platform for
industrial robots. More than 700
customers and partners use Isaac to
develop robots for e-commerce
fulfillment, retail automation, cleaning,
and last-mile delivery.
NVIDIA Clara Holoscan is for
AI-powered medical systems—an
open, programmable platform built to
medical-grade specification for
next-generation robotic imaging and
surgical instruments.
NVIDIA DRIVE is for autonomous vehicles
—a full-stack open platform for AV
development. The automotive industry is
enormous, with 100 million cars sold
each year and an installed base of over a
billion vehicles. With an $11 billion
design win pipeline over the next six
years, Auto has several upcoming
inflection points that we believe will
create the next multibillion-dollar
business for NVIDIA.
The NVIDIA Orin robotics computer
powers Isaac, Holoscan, and DRIVE. Orin
is in production and already powering 25
electric vehicle makers building
autonomous vehicles.
The NVIDIA DRIVE AV computer and
software will power Mercedes-Benz's
new fleet in 2024. And beginning in 2025,
all new Jaguar and Land Rover vehicles
will be powered by NVIDIA DRIVE AV.
THE POWER OF A MILLION-X TO
BATTLE CLIMATE CHANGE
We are living in a transformational time
in the field of computer science. Our
invention of the GPU and CUDA
democratized scientific computing.
NVIDIA AI computing scaled across a
data center can solve scientific
challenges a million-x more in speed and
scale, opening the door to tackle some of
the world's grandest challenges, like
drug discovery and climate science.
We announced last year our Earth-2
initiative—a digital twin of our planet.
Earth-2 will be a simulation system to
predict the complex multi-physics of
Earth's atmosphere, land, sea, and ice
caps at sufficiently high resolution to
predict regional impacts of human
actions over decades.
Extreme Weather

Earth-2 will require the invention of new
chips, supercomputers, and AI
algorithms that can predict climate
physics millions to billions times faster
than today.
Earth-2's implications for science and
society can be massive. And there is
early evidence we can succeed.
Researchers at NVIDIA and universities
Berkeley, Caltech, Michigan, Purdue,
and Rice have developed a weather
forecasting AI model called FourCastNet
that can predict weather events such as
hurricanes, atmospheric rivers, and
extreme rain up to 45,000x faster. What
previously took a classical numerical
simulation a year to complete now takes
just minutes.
Collaborating with climate scientists
worldwide, we hope to create a system
that lets researchers simulate climate
change while providing a platform to
predict the impact of mitigation and
adaptation strategies.
Earth-2 will pull together the brightest
minds to tackle one of humanity's
greatest threats.
LOOKING AHEAD
We had a fantastic year, but nothing
makes me prouder than the incredible
people who have made NVIDIA the
company it is today. We want our
company to be where they can do their
life's work, so it's a true honor that we
were ranked No. 1 on Glassdoor's Best
Places to Work list for large U.S.
companies. Employees alone drive this
ranking, and I am so grateful.
Our employees support the communities
in which they work and live. They joined
the company in contributing more than
$22 million to charitable causes in fiscal
year 2022.
Together, we drove advances this
year in AI, HPC, gaming, creative
design, autonomous vehicles, and
robotics—some of the world's most
impactful areas.
We enter the upcoming year with strong
momentum. Demand for our products is
exceptional. We made substantial strides
in diversifying and expanding our supply
base. Our execution has never been
better. And we go into this year with the
largest wave of new products in
our history.
I want to thank NVIDIA developers,
partners, customers, and families for
the amazing work you do. Exciting new
frontiers lie ahead. Let's seek them
out together.
Jensen Huang
CEO and Founder, NVIDIA
April 2022
