# Nvidia 2017 - NVIDIA 2017 CEO/stakeholder letter

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/nvidia/nvidia_2017_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 173-356
Selected text type: CEO/stakeholder letter
Extraction note: Official annual-review letter signed by Jensen Huang. Page 8 philanthropy section (lines 289-306 of source, "NVIDIANs are passionate...") was missing from initial extraction; restored 2026-05-11. Two-column section headers ("GIVING BACK TO OUR COMMUNITIES" / "SHAPING THE FUTURE") separated.

---

DEAR NVIDIANS AND STAKEHOLDERS,
GPU COMPUTING
HAS ARRIVED.
The tool that we built for the da Vincis and Einsteins
of our time is the force behind today's most promising
trends, from gaming and VR to AI and self-driving cars.
We leverage our powerful platform by focusing on the
hardest problems that only we can solve. They require
deep technical integration, from processor to software
to systems to domain expertise. They are worth the
efforts of our talented, dedicated employees.
And they matter to the world.
Revenue was up 38% to reach a record
$6.9 billion and gross margins expanded
270 basis points to hit 58.8 percent. GAAP
earnings per share were $2.57, up 138
percent. And we returned $1 billion to
shareholders through dividends and
stock repurchases.
Our gaming business grew 44% this year
to a record $4.1 billion. The breakthrough
Pascal architecture solidified our market
leadership. And we expanded our
platform with solutions to ride the
massive waves of blockbuster games,
eSports, and social media.
We continued to lead visual computing,
seeing double digit growth in our
professional visualization business
and advancing the field with our latest
Iray and VR technologies.
AI fueled the rapid growth of our
datacenter business, which tripled year
over year in the fourth quarter, bringing
total annual revenue to $830 million. We
have a multi-year lead in AI computing.
We've built an end-to-end platform that
starts with a GPU optimized for AI. Our
single architecture spans computers of
every shape and size—PCs, servers, IoT
devices—and is available from every
cloud service provider—Alibaba, Amazon,
Google, IBM, Microsoft. GPU deep
learning is the most advanced, most
accessible platform for AI.
Adoption of DRIVE PX 2 spurred our
multi-year lead in AI car computing.
Our AI car platform spans the range of
autonomous vehicles, from auto-piloted
cars to driverless shuttles, from training
to cloud mapping to in-car AI capabilities.
Some of the world's most innovative
automakers, the world's largest auto
suppliers, and the leading mapping
companies have adopted DRIVE PX.
Transformed from chips to platforms
and products. Along with our moves
to build platforms for select vertical
markets, we've also evolved from
building chips to building systems.
NVIDIA SHIELD is one example of
this transformation. SHIELD is a tiny
supercomputer for the home. It brings
NVIDIA's famed gaming capabilities
to the living room, serves up 4K HDR
movies, and is the AI computer that will
one day let you talk to and control your
home. The DGX-1 AI supercomputer,
our main thrust to bring AI to every
enterprise, is another example of our
systems approach.
Today, NVIDIA is capable of innovating
across the entire computing stack—
from the most advanced GPUs to
innovative systems, from graphics to AI,
from device to cloud—to serve the most
exciting growth industries of our time.
OUR COMPANY IS UNIQUE IN ITS EVOLUTION AND MARKET
POSITION. OUR STRATEGY IS FIRING ON ALL CYLINDERS.
GIVING BACK TO OUR COMMUNITIES
NVIDIANs are passionate about giving
back to their communities, with a long
history of volunteerism and strong
support for fighting cancer and improving
education. Our philanthropic giving this
year exceeded $5 million.
Our company regularly receives top
marks on prominent lists of the most
socially and environmentally responsible
companies, including debuting at No. 20
on the 100 Best Corporate Citizens
list in 2016.
Our employee-run NVIDIA Foundation
sets the priorities for our philanthropic
efforts. We have invested more than $3
million in Compute the Cure, which aids
researchers using GPU computing
techniques to accelerate their cancer-
fighting work as well as nonprofits
providing care and support services
to those affected by the disease.
This includes $200,000 grants this year
to the Translational Genomics Research
Institute for research to discover
individualized therapeutic vulnerability
in cancer, and to a team at the University
of North Texas that aims to discover
new cancer biomarkers to improve
diagnosis and treatment.
With Project Inspire, our employees and
their families come together each year
to enhance their local communities. In
Santa Clara, we celebrated our 10th
annual and largest yet event, which
brought together 1,650 of us to transform
a local high school in an underserved
neighborhood. In Pune, India, nearly
200 employees and their families
improved a rural high school and junior
college. In the U.K., NVIDIANs teamed
up to improve a facility for people with
learning disabilities.
SHAPING THE FUTURE
NVIDIA is a learning machine. For
over two decades, we've continuously
reinvented ourselves. Our work today
is shaping the industries and society
of tomorrow.
The computing model that we pioneered
is at the convergence of visual computing,
high performance computing, and AI—
technologies that will redefine the
relationship between man and machine.
The world we inhabit will increasingly
be expanded by virtual realities. And
our natural abilities will be amplified
by artificial intelligence.
This is undoubtedly the most exciting
time in our industry. AI will revolutionize
the very structure and fabric of society,
from transportation to healthcare, and
allow us to finally tackle those challenges
that matter most, like finding a cure
for cancer.
We, at NVIDIA, are seizing the moment.
Jensen Huang
CEO and Founder, NVIDIA
April 2017
