

--- Page 1 ---
2018 
annual report
140 years of human progress
Chevron Corporation    201 8 Annual Report
Chevron Corporation
6001  Bollinger Canyon  Road,  San Ramon, CA  94583-2324  USA
www.chevron.com
© 2019 Chevron  Corporation.  All rights reserved.
100%  Recyclable
912-0981
105707_CVX_AR2018_CVR.R2.indd   1 3/18/19   12:57 PM

--- Page 2 ---
leading the future of energy
Chevron delivers the affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy that enables human progress. 
As the energy landscape continues to evolve, Chevron invests in technology to push energy’s 
frontiers. We mobilize our human ingenuity to solve the most complex challenges and leverage 
our financial strength to explore new possibilities. 
Global demand for our products is growing, and Chevron’s portfolio continues to grow stronger 
and more resilient. Our Upstream organization finds, develops and produces oil and gas resources 
efficiently. Our Downstream & Chemicals organization drives earnings across the value chain and 
grows our chemical and lubricant portfolios. Our Midstream business provides safe and reliable 
infrastructure and services, ensuring the safe movement of our finished products. 
Of course, our greatest asset is our people. We are solvers of complex problems, and our global 
team — which includes engineers, scientists, environmentalists and technologists — is committed 
to leading the future of energy: 
The right way. 
The responsible way. 
The Chevron Way.
100 million 
metric tons
of carbon dioxide is expected to be 
injected into the Dupuy Formation 
over the life of the Gorgon facility*
*The Gorgon Carbon Dioxide Injection Project 
is the world’s largest commercial-scale carbon 
dioxide injection facility of its kind, designed to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the Gorgon 
Field project by approximately 40 percent.
On this page: Two of Chevron’s Asia-class liquefied natural gas (LNG) vessels, docked at the Chevron-operated Gorgon project on Barrow Island, 
Western Australia. Each vessel will take on approximately 158,000m3 of LNG, followed by a 10-day voyage to customers in Asia.
On the cover: Early morning at Tengiz, one of the world’s deepest producing supergiant oil fields, a welder from local Kazakhstani company 
MontazhSpetsStroy completes the ground assembly for tank construction for the Future Growth Project and Wellhead Pressure Management 
Project (FGP-WPMP). As the next phase of expansion at Tengiz, FGP-WPMP is expected to increase production to ~1 million barrels per day.

--- Page 3 ---
 table of contents
 II letter to stockholders
 V
I win
ning in any environment
 V
II ou
r sources of competitive advantage
 V
III our
 leadership
 I
X le
ad director: one-on-one
 X bo ard of directors and corporate officers
 X
II ch
evron at a glance
 X
IV ch
evron stock performance
 X
V fi
nancial and operating highlights
 X
VI st
rategies
 27 fi nancial review
 90 fi
ve-year financial summary
 10
2 ou
r history
  10
3   gl
ossary of energy and financial terms
 1
04 st
ockholder and investor information
4.2 billion 
cubic feet/day
24.5 million 
metric tons 
10 LNG 
carriers 
total production capacity  
of natural gas for Gorgon  
and Wheatstone
total installed liquefaction 
capacity per year for Gorgon 
and Wheatstone
Chevron’s shipbuilding  
and fleet modernization 
program
A digital version of this report is available:  
www.chevron.com/annualreport2018
Gorgon and Wheatstone LNG projects play a key role  
in meeting the Asia-Pacific region’s demand for affordable,  
reliable and ever-cleaner energy.


--- Page 4 ---
This year marks Chevron’s 140th anniversary — a milestone that prompts reflection on our history 
and admiration for the extraordinary women and men who have built a lasting company based on 
the belief that energy is vital to human progress. 
This purpose is even clearer now than it was in 1879.  
Today, Chevron touches the lives of billions of people across the globe, delivering affordable,  
reliable, ever-cleaner energy that offers access to the necessities of modern life, drives 
economic and social development, and creates the promise for a better future. 
We feel proud and privileged to fulfill this responsibility, to invest in the communities where we 
operate, and to generate sustained value for our stockholders, customers and employees.
Our strong performance in 2018 enabled us to deliver on all of our financial priorities — growing  
the dividend, funding a disciplined capital program, strengthening the balance sheet and returning 
surplus cash to stockholders.
to our stockholders
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
II

--- Page 5 ---
Financial highlights from 2018 include: 
 
For the 31st consecutive year, Chevron increased the annual 
per-share dividend payout. We returned an additional  
$1.75 billion of cash to stockholders through stock  
repurchases. In addition, we further strengthened the  
balance sheet, reducing our debt ratio to 18 percent.
This performance reflects momentum across 
all our operating segments.
Our Upstream business reported a highest-ever worldwide 
net production of more than 2.9 million oil-equivalent barrels 
per day, up more than 7 percent from 2017 and 12 percent 
from 2016. Production increases were driven by Permian Basin 
growth, startups in the Gulf of Mexico and Australia, continued 
ramp-up of liquified natural gas (LNG) operations in Australia, 
and a high level of reliability at Tengizchevroil in Kazakhstan. 
We added approximately 1.46 billion barrels of net  
oil-equivalent proved reserves, replacing 136 percent  
of production. Our five-year reserve replacement ratio is  
117 percent. 
Chevron increased development drilling in the Permian Basin, 
and we expect continued strong production growth in the 
Permian over the next several years. We also acquired new 
exploration acreage, including six blocks in Brazil and 31 blocks 
in the Gulf of Mexico. Construction continued on the Future 
Growth Project and Wellhead Pressure Management Project in 
Kazakhstan, including first module delivery and installation.
In Downstream & Chemicals, we commissioned a new hydrogen  
plant as part of the Richmond Refinery Modernization Project. 
In our Oronite additives business, we broke ground on our 
blending and shipping project in Ningbo, China. Chevron 
Phillips Chemical Company commissioned its world-scale 
ethane cracker at the Cedar Bayou facility as part of the U.S. 
Gulf Coast Petrochemicals Project. We also expanded our new 
retail marketing network in Mexico, with 135 stations opened as 
of year-end 2018. 
Our Midstream business delivered the first LNG cargo from the 
Gorgon project to the new LNG receiving terminal in Zhoushan, 
China, an important achievement that will help China meet its 
goal of increasing natural gas in its overall energy mix. In the 
Permian Basin, Chevron strategically secured pipeline capacity 
to maximize value in advance of our production ramp-up. 
Our Shipping organization supported the safe and successful 
delivery of the first modular component to the Future Growth 
Project in Kazakhstan — a voyage of nearly 17,000 miles.
Chevron delivered these results in a year characterized by 
healthy global economic activity and heightened geopolitical 
tensions. Global liquids demand surpassed 100 million barrels 
a day for the first time ever. Commodity prices rose during the 
first nine months of 2018, driven by strong demand, before 
Permian Basin  
Chevron and its legacy companies have been a fixture in the Permian Basin, 
which is located in the southwestern United States, since the early 1920s.  
In 2011, Chevron produced its 5 billionth barrel from the Permian. Today we 
are among the largest producers of oil and natural gas in the basin, and with 
approximately 2.2 million net acres (8,903 sq km), Chevron is one of the  
Permian Basin’s largest net acreage holders.
$14.8 billion
net income
up $5.6 billion from 2017
$158.9 billion
sales and other operating revenues
up $24.2 billion from 2017
$16.8 billion
record free cash flow
the highest level ever achieved by Chevron  
in any price environment
8.2% return
capital employed
up from 5% in 2017
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
III

--- Page 6 ---
In every instance, Chevron’s performance rests on the strong 
foundation created by our people and our culture. The 
environment in which we operate is dynamic. The biggest 
questions of the future remain unanswered. Our work is 
complex and demanding. Yet for 140 years, the ingenuity  
of our people has led to new insights, new discoveries and  
new innovations. 
This is not a coincidence. Our culture is 
defined by our values, which emphasize a 
deep commitment to diversity and inclusion, 
high performance, innovation, integrity,  
and trust. This has been part of our  
DNA for decades. 
To hold ourselves to this high standard — and to ensure an 
effective approach to human capital management — we 
regularly seek employee feedback to understand where 
Chevron is performing well and where we can further improve. 
Our Board of Directors takes this input seriously — and we 
act on it. Based on feedback, we are working to Build Our 
Tomorrow, by putting new digital technologies in the hands 
of employees, promoting better, faster decision making and 
revamping our performance management system. 
We use social media and other platforms to create access to 
information, remove organizational barriers, and bridge vast 
geographic expanses to exchange ideas and communicate. 
These are just some of the ways we put The Chevron Way to 
work, ensuring a culture in which all voices are heard, all ideas 
are considered and all our people have the opportunity to 
contribute to their fullest.
Actions like these are essential in today’s environment.  
But we recognize that leadership goes well beyond 
delivering strong financial returns and creating a compelling 
work experience. We must also deliver value for society.
declining in the last quarter. LNG markets continued to respond 
to strength in Asian gas demand. The return of U.S. sanctions 
on Iran, volatility in the Middle East, trade tensions between 
China and the United States, Russia sanctions, and worsening 
conditions in Venezuela created further uncertainty for global 
energy markets.
Although market conditions may remain volatile, our portfolio 
is resilient. We are focused on creating value through a 
disciplined capital program that prioritizes efficient, low-risk, 
short-cycle investments. Our Upstream portfolio is anchored 
by large, long-lived assets with low production decline. An 
efficient, high-return Downstream business complements 
our Upstream. Across all our business segments, we are 
accelerating the deployment of digital technologies to improve 
revenues, reduce costs, increase reliability and improve safety. 
We are making smart investments and building our company to 
win in any environment.
In 2018, we also had our best year ever in health, environment 
and safety performance, with no fatalities of employees or 
contractors in any of our operations. We continue to lead the 
industry in personal safety performance and meet or exceed 
targets on all core personal safety metrics. This performance is 
directly related to our strong Operational Excellence culture and 
an increased focus on safeguard assurance for high-risk work.
Our success is inextricably linked to the social progress and economic prosperity of the communities where we work. 
Our operations deliver good jobs and a better life. They promote the development of communities and enable the 
economic progress that fosters environmental improvement. In our annual Corporate Responsibility Report,  available 
at www.chevron.com/cr, we highlight our performance in several environmental, social and governance areas. 
Over the last five years, Chevron invested $154 billion in global goods  
and services and more than $1 billion in global social programs.
We are in the business of progress, and we cannot do this work alone. Across the countries where we operate, we  
rely on thousands of partners who help us convert our aspirations into real results. One such example is our support  
of the Global Fund and its work in Africa and the Pacific Rim fighting HIV/AIDS. In 2018, the Global Fund directed  
$2.5 million from Chevron to providing antiretroviral therapy to almost 20,000 people and helping reduce the 
mo
ther-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS. Since 2008, we have provided more than $60 million to the Global Fund, 
contributing to its success in saving more than 27 million lives.
record safety
2018 marks our best year on record in  
health, environment and safety
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
IV

--- Page 7 ---
We provide the affordable, reliable, ever-cleaner energy 
needed to meet rising demand. By 2040, the global 
population is expected to reach roughly 9 billion people, 
and the International Energy Agency expects global energy 
demand to increase by nearly 30 percent. Our strengths 
across Upstream, Midstream and Downstream position  
us to help meet society’s growing need for energy. 
We will meet this demand in a way that respects society’s 
concerns about climate change and aspirations for a cleaner 
environment — views we share. This requires innovation. In 
2018, we launched the $100 million Future Energy Fund, a 
venture capital fund established to invest in breakthrough 
technologies. Early investments include an electric vehicle 
charging network, novel battery technology and direct 
capture of carbon dioxide from the air.
We also joined the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI),  
a coalition of 13 global companies cooperating on 
constructive actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
Our commitment includes a $100 million contribution to 
OGCI’s more than $1 billion fund to invest in technologies 
and businesses that promise meaningful greenhouse gas 
emissions reductions.
During my first year as chairman and CEO, I visited our 
operations around the world to listen to and learn from our 
employees. In my travels, I was often asked: “Why do you  
work for Chevron?” We work for our  families. We work for  
our communities. We work to make the world a better place.  
And we work because we are proud of what we do.
 
I am honored to serve the women and men of Chevron. I am 
humbled by the opportunity to help build on our company’s 
140-year history and the work of generations of talented 
problem solvers who have turned some of the greatest 
challenges of our time into vast, human opportunities for 
advancement. I am proud, too, to represent a fundamental 
truth: energy enables human progress. I am committed to this 
truth, and I am fully confident that our people will continue to 
lead in the decades to come.
Sincerely, 
Michael K. Wirth 
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 
February 22, 2019
The greatest challenge we face is affordably and reliably meeting the energy 
needs of a growing world population and at the same time reducing emissions. 
 y In 2
019, we updated Climate Change Resilience — A Framework for Decision 
Making, available at www.chevron.com/corporate-responsibility/climate-change, 
which explains our strategic approach as it relates to climate change, to enhance  
reporting on governance, risk management, strategy and actions. This report is 
consistent with the recommendations made by the Financial Stability Board’s 
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures.
 y In 2
019, we added a new metric to our corporate scorecard tied to reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions. Chevron’s target is to achieve by 2023 a 20 to 
25 percent reduction in methane emissions intensity and a 25 to 30 percent 
reduction in flaring intensity. Employee bonus compensation is tied to our 
performance on this scorecard.
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
V

--- Page 8 ---
winning in any environment
Every day, we focus on delivering the energy that enables human progress and the ways  
we can — and will — win in any environment. We are committed to business strategies  
to grow free cash flow, improve returns and deliver value to our stockholders.
To win in any environment, we must innovate.  
Year after year, we will: 
Photo: Jack/St. Malo is Chevron’s signature deepwater 
project in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Total daily production 
from Jack/St. Malo fields in 2018 averaged 139,000 
barrels of liquids (71,000 net) and 21 million cubic feet  
of natural gas (11 million net). Mike Biondo, an Operations 
Team member, is shown here conducting routine checks 
on the floating production unit to ensure reliable and  
safe operations.
grow production and  
sustain margins
lower our  
cost structure
be returns-driven  
in capital allocation
high-grade  
portfolio
get more  
out of assets

--- Page 9 ---
our sources of competitive advantage
partners  
We partner around the world to deliver 
the energy of today and explore the 
energy opportunities of tomorrow. 
Delivering energy — from exploration to 
extraction to production to distribution —  
requires a network of trusted partners 
who succeed when we succeed.
assets  
We have diversified, high-quality 
assets around the world that underpin 
our financial strength and present 
opportunities for future development.
technology  
We leverage technology to push 
energy’s frontiers. Every day, we scan 
the landscape for opportunities to 
make the world’s energy cleaner and 
more affordable, our environmental 
footprint smaller, and the industry’s 
workforce safer.
expertise   
We leverage nearly a century and a  
half of expertise to navigate global 
markets, thrive in diverse economies  
and cultures, operate in complex 
regulatory environments, and develop 
new energy solutions.
purpose  
We are committed to delivering the 
energy that improves lives and enables 
human progress, within a company 
culture defined by trust, responsibility 
and integrity. Our purpose guides our 
aspirations, motivations and operations.
people  
We invest in developing and deploying 
generations of problem solvers, and 
we equip them to solve today’s biggest 
challenges while anticipating those on 
the horizon. We believe the greatest 
resources we have are human ingenuity, 
creativity and imagination.
financial strength  
Our financial strength supports our 
goal to invest in future opportunities 
and deliver sustained shareholder value 
in any economic environment. We put 
our financial strength to work to shape 
the future of energy — identifying the 
most promising trends, making smart 
investments and scaling the most 
sustainable solutions on a global basis.
energy is at the heart of  
everything we do
Our success is driven by our people and their 
commitment to getting results the right way — by 
operating responsibly, executing with excellence, 
applying innovative technologies and capturing new  
opportunities for profitable growth.
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
VII

--- Page 10 ---
our leadership
engaged leaders are working to mobilize chevron’s human ingenuity  
to solve the most complex energy challenges
As a company that touches the lives of billions of people 
around the world and provides the necessities of modern life, 
our responsibilities are profound. Today, employees, partners, 
customers and investors expect more from the corporation and 
its Board of Directors than ever before. 
The Chevron Board not only guides enterprise direction, 
but also continuously assesses internal and external views 
on a variety of topics, from energy market conditions 
and geopolitical developments to technology trends and 
competitor actions. Our Board has a proven track record 
across a broad range of experiences, including leadership 
of global businesses and international affairs; expertise in 
science, technology and engineering; extensive knowledge 
of governmental, regulatory, legal, environmental and public 
policy issues; and complex financial management, capital 
allocation and reporting processes.
Diversity of gender, ethnicity, age, skills and experience  
fosters the different perspectives that make our Board’s 
oversight and decision making more effective. 
The Chevron Board meets six times a year, often including 
field visits that provide insight into our human capital and 
operations. In 2018, the Board visited Argentina for an in-depth 
look at Chevron’s efforts to advance the development of Vaca 
Muerta — one of the largest deposits of shale oil and gas in the 
world — and support our company’s continued investment and 
commitment to economic growth in the area. During the visit, 
the Board met with members of the Argentine government and 
spent a day at Loma Campana, the flagship shale development 
in Vaca Muerta.
 
These visits help the Board establish a deeper connection to 
the business by offering opportunities to listen to, learn from 
and engage with the employees and partners who are leading 
the future of energy. 
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
VIII

--- Page 11 ---
Q: How does the diverse background of Chevron’s Board help 
the company navigate the world’s energy transition?
A: For more than a century and a half, the world has been in an 
energy transition as the first and second industrial revolutions 
have mechanized production, agriculture and other aspects of 
modern life. These advances have been fueled by energy as a  
primary input, and they set humanity on a track to continuously 
seek more affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy inputs in 
order to meet increasing global demand created by a growing 
population and ambitions for prosperity. 
The diverse experience and expertise of Chevron’s Board play 
a critical role in helping the company navigate the challenges 
and opportunities of this transition. By bringing together 
unique skills and qualifications developed through leadership 
in academia, business, finance and technology, as well as a 
diversity of gender, age, background and ethnicity, the Board  
is well positioned to test company strategy on an ongoing basis. 
As part of our duty to provide robust oversight, the Board also 
meets with external experts to add new perspectives regarding 
the evolving energy landscape. Through these efforts, the 
Board continuously drives Chevron’s strategy and ensures  
that risks are understood and mitigated.
Q: Tell us more about the Board’s role in human capital 
management.
A: Our Board is highly focused on human capital management 
issues, reflecting our belief that Chevron’s greatest resources 
are human ingenuity and sense of purpose. To ensure an 
engaged and inclusive work environment that values safety, 
The Chevron Way, and diversity of our employees’ talents 
and experiences, the Board reviews and approves executive 
compensation, executive selections and succession plans, and 
diversity and inclusion data. We regularly meet with employees 
at all levels and in different locations to observe firsthand how 
our investments in human capital are succeeding.
Q: What were the key takeaways from meetings with 
stockholders in 2018?
A: An engagement team of Chevron officers and experts held 
productive meetings with stockholders in 2018 to discuss a 
variety of topics — from financial performance to environmental, 
social and governance matters. I participated in some of these 
engagements. Our investors took a strong interest in three 
areas: managing risks associated with climate change; ensuring 
transparency of lobbying practices and processes; and having 
more insight into human capital management. 
We are taking important actions in response to this dialogue. 
In February 2019, we announced new methane and flaring 
intensity reduction targets as we updated key sections of 
Climate Change Resilience — A Framework for Decision Making. 
We also took steps to provide more transparency in our 
lobbying activities by lowering the disclosure threshold —  
from $500,000 to $100,000 in annual dues — for trade 
association memberships wherein a portion of our dues may  
be used for lobbying purposes. And we are committed to  
more disclosure in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report 
on issues such as gender equity, employee well-being, and 
recruitment and retention.
Q: How important is Board refreshment and evaluation?
A: To understand and lead in a dynamic energy market, it is 
important that we constantly evolve, including the membership 
of our Board. We have experienced meaningful refreshment in 
recent years, resulting in average Board tenure of 4.7 years, with 
a range from less than one year to 14 years. Our Directors must 
have broad experience and expertise relevant to the changing 
needs of the company and our industry. 
To enable Board refreshment and regular rotation of Committee 
chairs, Directors are elected annually and serve for a one-year 
term or until their successors are elected. In addition, every 
year, the Board and its Committees conduct a comprehensive 
self-evaluation, and I lead a discussion of the results with the full 
Board. This year, we augmented our evaluation process to make 
evaluations of individual Director performance more rigorous.
lead director: one-on-one
independent lead director ronald d. sugar discusses several key areas in which  
chevron is committed to lead — the future of energy, human capital management,  
stockholder engagement and board diversity
Our Board is highly focused on  
human capital management issues,  
reflecting our belief that Chevron’s greatest  
resources are human ingenuity and  
sense of purpose.
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
IX

--- Page 12 ---
Michael K. (Mike) Wirth,  58
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since February 2018. He was elected to these positions by Chevron’s 
Independent Directors in September 2017 and assumed the roles on February 1, 2018. Prior to his current role, Wirth served 
as vice chairman of the Board in 2017 and executive vice president of Midstream and Development for Chevron Corporation 
from 2016 to 2018. In that role, he was responsible for supply and trading, shipping, pipeline, and power operating units; 
corporate strategy; business development; and policy, government and public affairs. 
Wirth was executive vice president of Downstream & Chemicals from 2006 to 2015. Prior to that, he served as president of 
Global Supply and Trading from 2003 to 2006. In 2001, Wirth was named president of Marketing for Chevron’s Asia/Middle 
East/Africa business, based in Singapore. He also served on the board of directors for Caltex Australia Limited and GS Caltex 
Corporation in South Korea. 
Wirth serves on the board of directors of Catalyst. He also serves on the board of directors and executive committee of 
the American Petroleum Institute and is a member of the National Petroleum Council, the Business Roundtable, the World 
Economic Forum International Business Council and the American Society of Corporate Executives. Wirth joined Chevron in 
1982 as a design engineer. He earned a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from the University of Colorado in 1982. 
Dambisa F. Moyo,  50
Director  since 2016. She is chief executive officer of Mildstorm 
LLC, focusing on the global economy and international affairs. 
Previously, she worked at Goldman Sachs in various roles and 
at the World Bank in Washington, D.C. She is the author of three 
New York Times bestsellers and is a director of 3M Company and 
Barclays plc. (1) 
Wanda M. Austin,  64
Director  since 2016. She is interim president at the University of 
Southern California, and she holds an adjunct Research Professor 
appointment at the University of Southern California’s Viterbi 
School’s Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering. She 
is a retired president and chief executive officer of the Aerospace 
Corporation, a leading architect for the United States’ national 
security space programs. She is a director of Amgen Inc. (2, 4) 
Ronald D. Sugar,  70
Lead Director since 2015 and a Director  since 2005. He is a retired 
chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Northrop 
Grumman Corporation. He is a senior advisor to various businesses 
and organizations, including Ares Management LLC; Bain & 
Company; Temasek Americas Advisory Panel, based in Singapore; 
and the G100 Network and the World 50. He is a director of Air 
Lease Corporation, Amgen Inc. and Apple Inc. (2, 3) 
John B. Frank,  62
Director  since 2017. He is vice chairman of Oaktree Capital Group, 
LLC, a leader among global investment managers specializing in 
alternative investments. Previously, he was managing principal, 
having joined Oaktree in 2001 as general counsel. He is a director 
of Oaktree Capital Group, LLC, Oaktree Specialty Lending 
Corporation, and of Oaktree Strategic Income Corporation. (1)
Inge G. Thulin,  65
Director since 2015. He is executive chairman of the board of 
3M Company, a diversified global manufacturer, technology 
innovator, and marketer of a variety of products and services. 
Previously, he was chairman, president and chief executive 
officer of 3M. Prior to that, he was the company’s executive  
vice president and chief operating officer. He is a director of 
Merck & Co. (1)
Alice P. Gast,  60
Director since 2012. She is president of Imperial College London, 
a public research university specializing in science, engineering, 
medicine and business. Previously, she was president of Lehigh 
University in Pennsylvania. Prior to that, she was vice president 
for Research, associate provost and Robert T. Haslam Chair 
in chemical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology. (2,4)
D. James Umpleby III,  61
Director since 2018. He is chairman and chief executive officer 
of Caterpillar Inc., a leading manufacturer of construction and 
mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines, industrial 
gas turbines, and diesel-electric locomotives. Previously, he 
was group president of Caterpillar’s Energy and Transportation 
business segment. (2, 3)
Debra Reed-Klages,  63
Director since 2018. She is a retired chairman, chief executive 
officer and president of Sempra Energy, an energy-services 
holding company in North America and South America.  
Previously, she was executive vice president of Sempra Energy 
and president and chief executive officer of San Diego Gas & 
Electric and Southern California Gas Co. She is a director of 
Caterpillar Inc. (3,4)
Enrique Hernandez Jr.,  63
Director since 2008. He is chairman and chief executive officer of 
Inter-Con Security Systems, Inc., a global provider of security and 
facility support services to governments, utilities and industrial 
customers. He is chairman of the board of McDonald’s Corporation. 
(3, 4)
Charles W. Moorman IV,  67
Director since 2012. He is a retired chairman of the board and 
chief executive officer of Norfolk Southern Corporation, a 
freight and transportation company. He also served as president 
at Norfolk Southern from 2004 to 2013. He is also a retired 
president and chief executive officer of Amtrak, a passenger rail 
service provider. He is a director of Duke Energy Corporation and 
Oracle Corporation. (1)
Committees of the Board
 1) Audit: Charles W. Moorman IV, Chair
 2) 
 Bo
ard Nominating and Governance: Ronald D. Sugar, Chair
 3)  Ma
nagement Compensation: Enrique Hernandez Jr., Chair
 4) 
 Pu
blic Policy: Wanda M. Austin, Chair 
board of directors
The Board of Directors of Chevron directs the affairs of the corporation and is committed to  
sound principles of corporate governance. The Directors bring a proven track record of success  
across a broad range of experiences at the policymaking level.
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
X

--- Page 13 ---
Mark A. Nelson,  55
Executive Vice President, Downstream & Chemicals,  
since 2019. Responsible for directing the company’s worldwide 
manufacturing, marketing, lubricants, chemicals and Oronite 
additives businesses and Chevron’s joint-venture Chevron Phillips 
Chemical Company. Previously, vice president, Midstream, 
Strategy and Policy, and vice president, Strategic Planning.  
Joined the company in 1985.
Pierre R. Breber,  54
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2019. 
Responsible for comptroller, tax, treasury, audit and investor 
relations. Previously, executive vice president, Downstream & 
Chemicals, and executive vice president, Gas and Midstream.  
Joined the company in 1989.
Mary A. Francis,  54
Corporate Secretary and Chief Governance Officer since 2015. 
Responsible for providing advice and counsel to the Board of 
Directors and senior management on corporate governance 
matters, managing the company’s corporate governance 
function, and serving on the Law Function Executive Committee. 
Previously, chief corporate counsel. Joined the company in 2002.
Joseph C. Geagea,  59
Executive Vice President, Technology, Projects and Services, 
since 2015. Responsible for energy technology; delivery of major 
capital projects; procurement; Information and Technology; 
Health, Environment and Safety; talent selection; and business 
development. Previously, senior vice president, Technology, 
Projects and Services. Joined the company in 1982.
James W. Johnson,  60
Executive Vice President, Upstream,  since 2015. Responsible for 
Chevron’s global exploration and production activities for crude 
oil and natural gas. Previously, senior vice president, Upstream; 
president, Chevron Europe, Eurasia and Middle East Exploration 
and Production Company; managing director, Eurasia business 
unit; and managing director, Australasia business unit. Joined the 
company in 1981.
Navin K. Mahajan,  52
Vice President and Treasurer  since 2019. Responsible for 
Chevron’s banking, financing, cash management, insurance, 
pension investments, and credit and receivables activities. 
Previously, vice president of finance for Chevron’s Downstream 
& Chemicals organization, assistant treasurer of OpCo Financing 
for Chevron, and chief compliance officer. Joined the company 
in 1996.
Charles N. Macfarlane,  64
Vice President since  2013 and General Tax Counsel since 2010. 
Responsible for directing Chevron’s worldwide tax activities. 
Previously, the company’s assistant general tax counsel. Joined 
the company in 1986.
Rhonda J. Morris,  53
Vice President since 2016 and Chief Human Resources Officer 
since 2019. Responsible for human resources, diversity, ombuds, 
and global health and medical groups. Previously, vice president, 
Human Resources, Downstream & Chemicals. Joined the company 
in 1991.
Bruce Niemeyer,  57
Vice President, Strategic Planning,  since 2018. Responsible for 
the company’s strategic direction, allocation of resources, and 
determination of performance measures and targets. Previously, 
vice president of Chevron’s Mid-Continent business unit and vice 
president of the Appalachian/Michigan Strategic business unit. 
Joined the company in 2000.
Jeanette L. Ourada,  53
Vice President and Comptroller  since 2015. Responsible for 
corporatewide accounting, financial reporting and analysis, 
internal controls, and Finance Shared Services. Previously, 
general manager, Finance Shared Services; assistant treasurer; 
and general manager, Investor Relations. Joined the company 
in 2004.
R. Hewitt Pate,  56
Vice President and General Counsel since 2009. Responsible 
for directing the company’s worldwide legal affairs. Previously, 
chair, Competition Practice, Hunton & Williams LLP, Washington, 
D.C., and assistant attorney general, Antitrust Division, U.S. 
Department of Justice. Joined the company in 2009.
Colin E. Parfitt,  55
Vice President, Midstream, since 2019. Responsible for 
Chevron’s Midstream business, including the company’s supply 
and trading, shipping, pipeline, and power operating units. 
Previously, president, Supply and Trading. Joined the company 
in 1995.
J. David (Dave) Payne,  58
Vice President, Health, Environment and Safety (HES), 
since 2018. Responsible for HES strategic planning and issues 
management, compliance assurance, and emergency response. 
Previously, vice president of Drilling and Completions. Prior to 
that, drilling manager in Bangkok. Joined the company in 1981.
Jay R. Pryor,  61
Vice President, Business Development,  since 2006. Responsible 
for identifying and developing new, large-scale Upstream and 
Downstream business opportunities, including mergers and 
acquisitions. Previously, managing director, Chevron Nigeria Ltd., 
and managing director, Asia South business unit and Chevron 
Offshore (Thailand) Ltd. Joined the company in 1979.
Dale A. Walsh,  60
Vice President, Corporate Affairs, since 2019. Responsible 
for anticipating and responding to changing stakeholder 
expectations and managing social, political and reputational 
risks. Previously, president, Americas Products from 2010, and 
president, Lubricants, 2006–2010. Joined the company in 1983.
Executive Committee
Michael K. Wirth, Pierre R. Breber, Joseph C. Geagea, James W. Johnson, Mark A. Nelson,  
Colin E. Parfitt, R. Hewitt Pate and Rhonda J. Morris.
corporate officers
Retiring Officers
Wesley E. Lohec,  retired effective June 2018; vice president, Health, Environment and 
Safety, since 2011; joined the company in 1981. Joseph M. Naylor, retired effective April 2019;  
vice president, Policy, Government and Public Affairs, since 2016; joined the company in 1982. 
Randolph S. (Randy) Richards,  retired effective February 2019; vice president and  
treasurer since 2016; joined the company in 1979. Patricia E. Yarrington,  retired effective 
April 2019; vice president and chief financial officer since 2009; joined the company in 1980.
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
XI

--- Page 14 ---
chevron at a glance
Chevron is one of the world’s leading integrated energy companies. We explore for, produce and 
transport crude oil and natural gas; refine, market and distribute transportation fuels and lubricants; 
manufacture and sell petrochemicals and additives; and develop and deploy technologies that 
enhance business value in every aspect of the company’s operations. Our success is driven by a 
dedicated, diverse and highly skilled global workforce, united by the vision, values and strategies of  
The Chevron Way and a commitment to deliver industry-leading results and superior stockholder 
value in any operating environment. 
$158.9 billion
sales and other  
operating revenues
1
2.9 million barrels
net oil-equivalent 
daily production
1
Photo: The Mafumeira Sul project off the 
coast of Cabinda province in Angola is part  
of a continuing effort to grow Chevron’s 
production capacity in offshore Block 0 and 
contribute to the development of Angola’s  
oil and gas industry. First liquified petroleum 
gas export began in January 2018. Ramp-up  
continued at the main production facility, 
with total daily production in 2018 averaging 
52,000 barrels of liquids (17,000 net) and  
147 million cubic feet of natural gas (57 million 
net) exported to the Angola LNG plant. Every 
day, employees at Mafumeira Sul like the ones  
shown here are committed to protecting 
people and the environment.
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
XII

--- Page 15 ---
We operate responsibly, applying advanced technologies,  
capturing new high-return opportunities, and producing returns  
in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. We take great 
pride in enabling human progress by developing the energy that 
improves lives and powers the world forward. 
12.1 billion barrels
net oil-equivalent 
   proved reserves
2, 3
$253.9 billion
 
total assets
2
1 Year ended December 31, 2018       
2 At December 31, 2018 
3 For definition of “reserves,” see glossary of energy and financial terms, page 103
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
XIII

--- Page 16 ---
/dollar.tab/one.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab 
/dollar.tab/two.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab 
/two.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab/eight.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/eight.tab 
Performance graph
The stock performance graph at right shows how an 
initial investment of $100 in Chevron stock would have 
compared with an equal investment in the S&P 500 Index 
or the Competitor Peer Group. The comparison covers a 
five-year period beginning December 31, 2013, and ending 
December 31, 2018, and for the peer group is weighted by 
market capitalization as of the beginning of each year. It 
includes the reinvestment of all dividends that an investor 
would have been entitled to receive and is adjusted for 
stock splits. The interim measurement points show the 
value of $100 invested on December 31, 2013, as of the  
end of each year between 2014 and 2018.
Chevron S&P 500 Peer group: BP p.l.c. (ADS), ExxonMobil,  
Royal Dutch Shell p.l.c. (ADS),  
Total S.A. (ADR)
$150
$106
$99
/five.tab/zero.tab
/seven.tab/five.tab
/one.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/two.tab/five.tab
/one.tab/five.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/seven.tab/five.tab
/two.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab
/two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/three.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/four.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/five.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/six.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/seven.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/eight.tab 
chevron stock performance
3-year 10-year5-year
/zero.tab/percent.tab
/one.tab/zero.tab/percent.tab
/two.tab/zero.tab/percent.tab
/three.tab/zero.tab/percent.tab
/zero.tab/percent.tab/uni00A0
/five.tab/percent.tab
/one.tab/zero.tab/percent.tab
/zero.tab
/five.tab/percent.tab
/one.tab/zero.tab/percent.tab
/one.tab/five.tab/percent.tab
Five-year cumulative total returns  
(Calendar years ended December 31)
Peer group: BP p.l.c. (ADS), ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch Shell p.l.c. (ADS), Total S.A. (ADR)
* An
nualized total stockholder return (TSR) as of 12/31/2018. Includes stock price appreciation and 
reinvested dividends when paid. For TSR comparison purposes, ADR/ADS prices and dividends are 
used for non-U.S.-based companies. Dividends include both cash and scrip share distributions.
10.8%
1.2%
7.8%
31 consecutive years
2018 marked the 31st consecutive year we increased
the annual per-share dividend payout
Chevron S&P 500 Peer group: BP p.l.c. (ADS), ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch Shell p.l.c. (ADS), Total S.A. (ADR).  
Dividends include both cash and scrip share distributions for European peers.
Indexed dividend growth  
Basis 2008 = 100
~6% 
CVX compound annual
growth rate
Total stockholder returns * 
(as of 12/31/2018)
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
XIV

--- Page 17 ---
Financial highlights 1 2018 2017 2016
Net income (loss) attributable to Chevron Corporation $  14,824 $  9,195 $ (497)
Sales and other operating revenues $  158,902 $  134,674 $  110,215 
Cash provided by operating activities 2 $  30,618 $  20,338 $  12,690 
Capital and exploratory expenditures 3 $  20,106 $  18,821 $  22,428 
Total assets at year-end $  253,863 $  253,806 $  260,078 
Total debt and capital lease obligations at year-end $  34,459 $  38,763 $  46,126 
Chevron Corporation stockholders’ equity at year-end $  154,554 $  148,124 $  145,556 
Common shares outstanding at year-end (Thousands)  1,888,670  1,890,534 1,877,338 
Per-share data
Net income (loss) attributable to Chevron Corporation — diluted $ 7.74 $ 4.85 $ (0.27 )
Cash dividends $ 4.48 $ 4.32 $ 4.29 
Chevron Corporation stockholders’ equity $ 81.83 $ 78.35 $ 77.53 
Common stock price at year-end $ 108.79 $ 125.19 $ 117.70 
Debt ratio 18.2% 20.7% 24.1%
Return on stockholders’ equity 9.8% 6.3% (0.3)%
Return on capital employed 8.2% 5.0% (0.1)%
Operating highlights 6 2018 2017 2016
Net production of crude oil, condensate, NGLs and synthetic oil 7 (Thousands of barrels per day)  1,782  1,723  1,719 
Net production of natural gas (Millions of cubic feet per day)  6,889  6,032  5,252 
Total net oil-equivalent production (Thousands of oil-equivalent barrels per day)  2,930  2,728  2,594 
Net proved reserves of crude oil, condensate, NGLs and synthetic oil 7,8 (Millions of barrels)  6,790  6,542  6,328 
Net proved reserves of natural gas8 (Billions of cubic feet)  31,576  30,736  28,760 
Net proved oil-equivalent reserves 8 (Millions of barrels)  12,053  11,665  11,121 
Refinery input (Thousands of barrels per day)  1,608  1,661  1,688 
Sales of refined products (Thousands of barrels per day)  2,655  2,690  2,675 
Number of employees at year-end9  45,047  48,596  51,953 
6 Includes equity in affiliates, except number of employees 
7 NGLs = natural gas liquids 
8 At year-end
9 Excludes service station personnel
 1 Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts  
 2 2017 and 2016 adjusted to conform to Accounting Standards Updates 2016–15 and 2016–18  
 3 Includes equity in affiliates
4 Includes expenditures by equity affiliates 5 Includes operating expense, selling, general and administrative expense, 
a
nd other components of net periodic benefit costs
financial and operating highlights
Total capital and exploratory expenditures 4 
($ - Billions)
Operating expense 5  
($ - Billions)
/dollar.tab/zero.tab
/dollar.tab/one.tab/zero.tab
/dollar.tab/two.tab/zero.tab
/dollar.tab/three.tab/zero.tab
/dollar.tab/four.tab/zero.tab
/dollar.tab/five.tab/zero.tab
/two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/four.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/five.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/six.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/seven.tab/two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/eight.tab
/dollar.tab/one.tab/nine.tab /dollar.tab/two.tab/zero.tab/dollar.tab/two.tab/two.tab/dollar.tab/three.tab/four.tab/dollar.tab/four.tab/zero.tab
/dollar.tab/one.tab/five.tab
/dollar.tab/two.tab/zero.tab
/dollar.tab/three.tab/five.tab
/dollar.tab/three.tab/zero.tab
/dollar.tab/two.tab/five.tab
/two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/four.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/five.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/six.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/seven.tab/two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/eight.tab
/dollar.tab/two.tab/four.tab /dollar.tab/two.tab/five.tab /dollar.tab/two.tab/five.tab/dollar.tab/two.tab/seven.tab/dollar.tab/three.tab/zero.tab
~$5 billion reduction 
(2014–2018)
~$20 billion reduction 
(2014–2018)
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
XV

--- Page 18 ---
strategies
our strategies guide our actions to deliver industry-leading results and  
superior shareholder value in any business environment
People  
Invest in people to develop and empower  
a highly competent workforce that delivers 
results the right way
Execution  
Deliver results through disciplined  
operational excellence, capital stewardship  
and cost efficiency
Growth   
Grow profits and returns by using our 
competitive advantages
Technology and functional excellence  
Differentiate performance through  
technology and functional expertise
enterprise strategies
Upstream  
Deliver industry-leading returns 
while developing high-value resource 
opportunities
Downstream & Chemicals  
Grow earnings across the value chain and 
make targeted investments to lead the 
industry in returns
Midstream  
Deliver operational, commercial and 
technical expertise to enhance results in 
Upstream and Downstream & Chemicals
major business strategies
Photo: Startup of the new ethane cracker was achieved at the Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC’s (CPChem) U.S. Gulf Coast Petrochemical Project in March 2018.  
CPChem’s strong positions in North America and the Middle East enable it to leverage the availability of competitive feedstocks to meet growing global demand.
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
XVI

--- Page 19 ---
Financial Table of Contents
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Key Financial Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Earnings by Major Operating Area ............................... 28
Business Environment and Outlook .............................. 28
Operating Developments ....................................... 31  
Results of Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32  
Consolidated Statement of Income  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34  
Selected Operating Data ....................................... 37  
Liquidity and Capital Resources ................................. 38  
Financial Ratios  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40  
Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, ..........
Guarantees and Other Contingencies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Financial and Derivative Instrument Market Risk ................... 41
Transactions With Related Parties ............................... 42
Litigation and Other Contingencies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Environmental Matters ......................................... 43  
Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions .................... 43 
New Accounting Standards ..................................... 46  
Quarterly Results ............................................. 47
Consolidated Financial Statements
Reports of Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm . . . . . . . . . . .  49
Consolidated Statement of Income  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income ................. 51
Consolidated Balance
Sheet ....................................  52
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows ........................... 53
Consolidated Statement of Equity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies .............. 55
Note 2 Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Losses . . .  58
Note 3 Information Relating to the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows ............................ 59
Note 4  New Accounting Standards ........................... 60
Note 5  Lease Commitments ................................. 62
Note 6 Summarized Financial Data – Chevron U.S.A. Inc. ........ 63
Note 7 Summarized Financial Data – Tengizchevroil LLP ......... 63
Note 8  Fair Value Measurements ............................ 63
Note 9 Financial and Derivative Instruments ................... 64
Note 10  Assets Held for Sale ................................. 66
Note 11  Equity ............................................. 66  
Note 12  Earnings Per Share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66  
Note 13 Operating Segments and Geographic Data .............. 66 
Note
14  Investments and Advances ........................... 69  
Note 15  Litigation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70  
Note 16  Taxes ............................................. 74  
Note 17  Properties, Plant and Equipment ....................... 77  
Note 18  Short-Term Debt .................................... 77  
Note 19  Long-Term Debt .................................... 78  
Note 20 Accounting for Suspended Exploratory Wells ............. 79 
Note 21 Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation ..... 80 
Note 22  Employee Benefit Plans .............................. 81  
Note 23 Other Contingencies and Commitments .................  86 
Note 24  Asset Retirement Obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88  
Note 25  Revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88  
Note 26  Other Financial Information ........................... 89
Five-Year Financial Summary ................................... 90  
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities ........  91
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF “SAFE 
HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
This Annual Report of Chevron Corporation contains forward-looking statements relating to Chevron’s operations that are based on
management’s current expectations, estimates and projections about the petroleum, chemicals and other energy-related industries. Words or
phrases such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “targets,” “forecasts,” “projects,” “believes,” “seeks,” “schedules,” “estimates,”
“positions,” “pursues,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “budgets,” “outlook,” “trends,” “guidance,” “focus,” “on schedule,” “on track,” “is
slated,” “goals,” “objectives,” “strategies,” “opportunities” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are
beyond the company’s control and
are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or
forecasted in such forward-looking statements. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only
as of the date of this report. Unless legally required, Chevron undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements,
whether as
a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those in the forward-looking statements are: changing crude
oil and natural gas prices; changing refining, marketing and chemicals margins; the company’s ability to realize anticipated cost savings and
expenditure reductions; actions of competitors or regulators; timing of exploration expenses; timing of crude oil liftings; the competitiveness of
alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; technological developments; the results of operations and financial condition of the company’s
suppliers, vendors, partners and equity affiliates, particularly during extended periods of low prices for crude oil and natural gas; the inability or
failure of the company’s joint-venture partners to fund their share of operations and development activities; the potential failure to achieve
expected net production from existing and future crude oil and natural gas development projects; potential delays in the development, construction
or start-up of planned projects; the potential disruption or interruption of the company’s operations due to war, accidents, political events, civil
unrest, severe weather, cyber threats and terrorist acts,
crude oil production quotas or other actions that might be imposed by the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, or other natural or human causes beyond the company’s control; changing economic, regulatory and political
environments in the various countries in which the company operates; general domestic and international economic and political conditions; the
potential liability for remedial actions or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations and litigation; significant operational,
investment or product changes required by existing or future environmental statutes and regulations, including international agreements and
national or regional legislation and regulatory measures to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions; the potential liability resulting from other
pending or future litigation; the company’s future acquisition or disposition of assets or shares or the delay or failure of such transactions to close
based on required closing conditions; the potential for gains and losses from asset dispositions or impairments; government-mandated sales,
divestitures, recapitalizations, industry-specific taxes, tariffs, sanctions, changes in fiscal terms or restrictions on scope of company operations;
foreign currency movements compared with the U.S. dollar; material reductions in corporate liquidity and access to debt markets; the effects of
changed accounting rules under generally accepted accounting principles promulgated by rule-setting bodies; the company’s ability to identify
and mitigate the risks and hazards inherent in operating in the global energy industry; and the factors set forth under the heading “Risk Factors”
on
pages 18 through 21 of the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this report could
also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.
27
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
27
143262_Financials.r2.indd   27 3/18/19   6:09 PM

--- Page 20 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Key Financial Results
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 2018 2017 2016
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation $ 14,824 $ 9,195 $ (497)
Per Share Amounts:
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation
– Basic $ 7.81 $ 4.88 $ (0.27)
– Diluted $ 7.74 $ 4.85 $ (0.27)
Dividends $ 4.48 $ 4.32 $ 4.29
Sales and Other Operating Revenues $ 158,902 $ 134,674 $ 110,215
Return on:
Capital Employed 8.2% 5.0% (0.1)%
Stockholders’ Equity 9.8% 6.3% (0.3)%
Earnings by Major Operating Area
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Upstream
United States $ 3,278 $ 3,640 $ (2,054)
International 10,038 4,510 (483)
Total Upstream 13,316 8,150 (2,537)
Downstream
United States 2,103 2,938 1,307
International 1,695 2,276 2,128
Total Downstream 3,798 5,214 3,435
All Other (2,290) (4,169) (1,395)
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation 1,2 $ 14,824 $ 9,195 $ (497)
1 Includes foreign currency effects: $ 611 $ (446) $ 58
2 Income net of tax, also referred to as “earnings” in the discussions that follow.
Refer to the “Results of Operations” section beginning on page 32 for a discussion of financial results by major operating
area for the three years ended December 31, 2018.
Business Environment and Outlook
Chevron is a global energy company with substantial business activities in the following countries: Angola, Argentina,
Australia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Denmark, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Myanmar, Nigeria,
the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, the Philippines, Republic of Congo, Singapore, South Korea,
Thailand, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Venezuela.
Earnings of the company depend mostly on the profitability of its upstream business segment. The most significant factor
affecting the results of operations for the upstream segment is the price of crude oil, which is determined in global markets
outside of the company’s control. In the company’s downstream business, crude oil is the largest cost component of refined
products. It is the company’s objective to deliver competitive results and stockholder value in any business environment.
Periods of sustained lower prices could result in the impairment or write-off of specific assets in future periods and cause the
company to adjust operating expenses and capital and exploratory expenditures, along with other measures intended to
improve financial performance.
The effective tax rate for the company can change substantially during periods of significant earnings volatility. This is due
to the mix effects that are impacted both by the absolute level of earnings or losses and whether they arise in higher or lower
tax rate jurisdictions. As a result, a decline or increase in the effective income tax rate in one period may not be indicative of
expected results in future periods. Note 16 provides the company’s effective income tax rate for the last three years.
Refer to the “Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information” on page 2 and to “Risk Factors” in Part I,
Item 1A, on pages 18 through 21 of the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of some of the inherent
risks that could materially impact the company’s results of operations or financial condition.
The company continually evaluates opportunities to dispose of assets that are not expected to provide sufficient long-term
value or to acquire assets or operations complementary to its asset base to help augment the company’s financial
performance and value growth. Asset dispositions and restructurings may result in significant gains or losses in future
periods. The company’s asset sale program for 2018 through 2020 is targeting before-tax proceeds of $5-10 billion. Proceeds
related to asset sales were $2.0 billion in 2018.
28
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
28
143262_Financials.indd   28 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 21 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The company closely monitors developments in the financial and credit markets, the level of worldwide economic activity,
and the implications for the company of movements in prices for crude oil and natural gas. Management takes these
developments into account in the conduct of daily operations and for business planning.
Comments related to earnings trends for the company’s major business areas are as follows:
Upstream Earnings for the upstream segment are closely aligned with industry prices for crude oil and natural gas. Crude oil
and natural gas prices are subject to external factors over which the company has no control, including product demand
connected with global economic conditions, industry production and inventory levels, technology advancements, production
quotas or other actions imposed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) or other producers, actions of
regulators, weather-related damage and disruptions, competing fuel prices, and regional supply interruptions or fears thereof
that may be caused by military conflicts, civil unrest or political uncertainty. Any of these factors could also inhibit the
company’s production capacity in an affected region. The company closely monitors developments in the countries in which
it operates and holds investments, and seeks to manage risks in operating its facilities and businesses. The longer-term trend
in earnings for the upstream segment is also a function of other factors, including the company’s ability to find or acquire and
efficiently produce crude oil and natural gas, changes in fiscal
terms of contracts, and changes in tax and other applicable
laws and
regulations.
The company continues to actively manage its schedule of work, contracting, procurement and supply-chain activities to
effectively manage costs. However, price levels for capital and exploratory costs and operating expenses associated with the
production of crude oil and natural gas can be subject to external factors beyond the company’s control including, among
other things, the general level of inflation, tariffs or other taxes imposed on goods or services, commodity prices and prices
charged by the industry’s material and service providers, which can be affected by the volatility of the industry’s own
supply-and-demand conditions for such materials and services. Modest cost pressures continue in rig-related services across
North America unconventional markets. Cost pressures have softened in well completion activity particularly in the Permian
Basin, but are expected to rise when pipeline takeaway constraints are resolved in late 2019. International and offshore
markets are showing indications of increased activity levels with limited cost pressures to date.
Capital and exploratory expenditures and operating expenses could also be affected by damage to production facilities caused
by severe weather or civil unrest, delays in construction, or other factors.
WTI Crude Oil, Brent Crude Oil and Henry Hub Natural Gas Spot Prices - Quarterly Average
0
40
80 
60
20
0
6
12 
9
3
1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 1Q2Q 2Q3Q 3Q4Q 4Q
Oil 
$/bbl
HH 
$/mcf
2016 2017  2018
Brent 
WTI 
Henry Hub 
The chart above shows the trend in benchmark prices for Brent crude oil, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil and U.S.
Henry Hub natural gas. The majority of the company’s equity crude production is priced based on the Brent benchmark. The
Brent price averaged $71 per barrel for the full-year 2018, compared to $54 in 2017. Crude oil prices increased throughout
the first three quarters of 2018 due to solid demand combined with OPEC production cuts. Late in the year, continued U.S.
shale growth, combined with unexpected short-term waivers from Iranian sanctions granted to several countries, led to
excess supply conditions, resulting in a decrease in oil prices. In response, OPEC agreed to new production cuts in early
December. As of mid-February 2019, the Brent price was $64 per barrel.
The WTI price averaged $65 per barrel for the full-year 2018, compared to $51 in 2017. WTI traded at a discount to Brent
throughout 2018. Differentials to Brent have ranged between $3 to $10 in 2018 primarily due to pipeline infrastructure
constraints which have restricted flows on the inland crude to export outlets on
the Gulf Coast, in addition to variability in
29
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
29
143262_Financials.r2.indd   29 3/18/19   6:09 PM

--- Page 22 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
other factors impacting supply and demand of each benchmark crude. As of mid-February 2019, the WTI price was $54 per
barrel.
Chevron has interests in the production of heavy crude oil in California, Indonesia, the Partitioned Zone between Saudi
Arabia and Kuwait, Venezuela and in certain fields in Angola, China and the United Kingdom sector of the North Sea. (See
page 37 for the company’s average U.S. and international crude oil sales prices.)
In contrast to price movements in the global market for crude oil, price changes for natural gas are more closely aligned with
supply-and-demand conditions in regional markets. Fluctuations in the price of natural gas in the United States are closely
associated with customer demand relative to the volumes produced and stored in North America. In the United States, prices
at Henry Hub averaged $3.12 per thousand cubic feet (MCF) during 2018, compared with $2.97 during 2017. As of
mid-February 2019, the Henry Hub spot price was $2.61 per MCF.
Outside the United States, price changes for natural gas depend on a wide range of supply, demand and regulatory
circumstances. Chevron sells natural gas into the domestic pipeline market in many locations. In some locations, Chevron
has invested in long-term projects to produce and liquefy natural gas for transport by tanker to other markets. The company’s
long-term contract prices for liquefied natural gas (LNG) are typically linked to crude oil prices.
Most of the equity LNG
offtake from
the operated Australian LNG projects is committed under binding long-term contracts, with the remainder to be
sold in the Asian spot LNG market. The Asian spot market reflects the supply and demand for LNG in the Pacific Basin and
is not directly linked to crude oil prices. International natural gas realizations averaged $6.29 per MCF during 2018,
compared with $4.62 per MCF during 2017. (See page 37 for the company’s average natural gas realizations for the U.S. and
international regions.)
The company’s worldwide net oil-equivalent production in 2018 averaged 2.930 million barrels per day. About one-sixth of
the company’s net oil-equivalent production in 2018 occurred in the OPEC-member countries of Angola, Nigeria, Republic
of Congo and Venezuela. OPEC quotas had no effect on the company’s net crude oil production in 2018 or 2017.
The company estimates that net oil-equivalent production in 2019 will grow 4 to 7 percent compared to 2018, assuming a
Brent crude oil price of $60 per barrel and excluding the impact of anticipated 2019 asset sales. This estimate is subject to
many factors and uncertainties, including quotas or other actions that may be imposed by OPEC; price effects on entitlement
volumes; changes in fiscal terms or restrictions on the scope of company operations; delays in construction; reservoir
performance; greater-than-expected declines in production from mature fields; start-up or ramp-up of projects; fluctuations in
demand for natural gas in various markets; weather conditions that may shut
in production; civil unrest; changing
geopolitics; delays in completion of maintenance turnarounds; or other disruptions to operations. The outlook for future
production levels is also affected by the size and number of economic investment opportunities and the time lag between
initial exploration and the beginning of production. The company has increased its investment emphasis on short-cycle
projects.
30
/zero.tab
/six.tab/eight.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/seven.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab
/three.tab/four.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab
/five.tab/one.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab
Net natural gas production*
Millions of cubic feet per day
United States
International
*  Includes equity in afﬁliates.
/one.tab/five.tab/one.tab/four.tab /one.tab/six.tab /one.tab/seven.tab /one.tab/eight.tab
/six.tab/comma.tab/eight.tab/eight.tab/nine.tab
/zero.tab
/two.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/six.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/two.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab
/eight.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab
/four.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab
Net liquids production*
Thousands of barrels per day
United States
International
*  Includes equity in afﬁliates.
/one.tab/five.tab/one.tab/four.tab /one.tab/six.tab /one.tab/seven.tab /one.tab/eight.tab
/one.tab/comma.tab/seven.tab/eight.tab/two.tab
/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/five.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/five.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
Net proved reserves
Billions of BOE
Aﬃliates
Europe
Australia/Oceania
Asia
Africa
Other Americas
United States
/one.tab/two.tab/period.tab/one.tab
/one.tab/four.tab /one.tab/five.tab /one.tab/six.tab /one.tab/seven.tab /one.tab/eight.tab
Net proved reserves
liquids & natural gas   
Billions of BOE
/one.tab/five.tab/one.tab/four.tab/one.tab/six.tab/one.tab/seven.tab/one.tab/eight.tab
Natural  gas
Liquids
/one.tab/five.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/five.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/two.tab/period.tab/one.tab
10K page 33
10K charts_2018_022619_v1.indd   1 2/26/2019   11:08:12 AM
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
30
143262_Financials.indd   30 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 23 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
In the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, production was shut-in beginning in May 2015 as a result of
difficulties in securing work and equipment permits. Net oil-equivalent production in the Partitioned Zone in 2014 was
81,000 barrels per day. During 2015, net oil-equivalent production averaged 28,000 barrels per day. As of early 2019,
production remains shut in and the exact timing of a production restart is uncertain and dependent on dispute resolution
between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. The financial effects from the loss of production in 2018 were not significant and are not
expected to be significant in 2019.
Chevron has interests in Venezuelan crude oil production assets operated by independent equity affiliates. During 2018, net
oil equivalent production in Venezuela averaged 44,000 barrels per day. The operating environment in Venezuela has been
deteriorating for some time. In January 2019, the United States government issued sanctions against the Venezuelan national
oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA), which is the company’s partner in the equity affiliates. The equity
affiliates continue to operate, and the company is conducting its business pursuant to general licenses issued coincident with
the new sanctions. Future events could result in the environment in Venezuela becoming more challenged, which could lead
to increased business disruption and volatility in the associated financial results.
Net proved reserves for consolidated companies and affiliated companies totaled 12.1 billion barrels of oil-equivalent at
year-end 2018, an increase of 3 percent from year-end 2017. The reserve replacement ratio in 2018 was 136 percent. Refer to
Table V beginning on page 95 for a tabulation of the company’s proved net oil and gas reserves by geographic area, at the
beginning of 2016 and each year-end from 2016 through 2018, and an accompanying discussion of major changes to proved
reserves by geographic area for the three-year period ending December 31, 2018.
Refer to the “Results of Operations” section on pages 32 through 34 for additional discussion of the company’s upstream
business.
Downstream Earnings for the downstream segment are closely tied to margins on the refining, manufacturing and marketing of
products that include gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, lubricants, fuel oil, fuel and lubricant additives, and petrochemicals. Industry
margins are sometimes volatile and can be affected by the global and regional supply-and-demand balance for refined products
and petrochemicals, and by changes in the price of crude oil, other refinery and petrochemical feedstocks, and natural gas.
Industry margins can also be influenced by inventory levels, geopolitical events, costs of materials and services, refinery or
chemical plant capacity utilization, maintenance programs, and disruptions at refineries or chemical plants resulting from
unplanned outages due to severe weather, fires or other operational events.
Other factors affecting profitability for downstream operations include the reliability and efficiency of the company’s
refining, marketing and petrochemical assets, the effectiveness of its crude oil and product supply functions, and the
volatility of tanker-charter rates for the company’s shipping operations, which are driven by the industry’s demand for crude
oil and product tankers. Other factors beyond the company’s control include the general level of inflation and energy costs to
operate the company’s refining, marketing and petrochemical assets and changes in tax laws and regulations.
The company’s most significant marketing areas are the West Coast and Gulf Coast of the United States and Asia. Chevron
operates or has significant ownership interests in refineries in each of these areas.
Refer to the “Results of Operations” section on pages 32 through 34 for additional discussion of the company’s downstream
operations.
All Other consists of worldwide cash management and debt financing activities, corporate administrative functions,
insurance operations, real estate activities and technology companies.
Operating Developments
Key operating developments and other events during 2018 and early 2019 included the following:
Upstream
Australia Achieved start-up of Train 2 at the Wheatstone LNG Project.
United States Produced first oil from the Big Foot Project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Downstream
South Africa and Botswana Completed the sale of refining, marketing and lubricant assets.
United States Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC (CPChem), the company’s 50 percent-owned affiliate, commenced
operations of a new ethane cracker at its Cedar Bayou facility in Baytown, Texas.
31
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
31
143262_Financials.indd   31 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 24 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
United States In January 2019, Chevron announced it has signed an agreement to acquire a 110,000 barrels per day refinery
located in Pasadena, Texas. The transaction is expected to close later in the first-half of 2019, subject to regulatory approvals.
Other
Common Stock Dividends The 2018 annual dividend was $4.48 per share, making 2018 the 31st consecutive year that the
company increased its annual per share dividend payout. In January 2019, the company’s Board of Directors approved a
$0.07 per share increase in the quarterly dividend to $1.19 per share, payable in March 2019, representing an increase of
6 percent.
Common Stock Repurchase Program The company purchased $1.75 billion of its common stock in 2018 under its stock
repurchase program.
Results of Operations
The following section presents the results of operations and variances on an after-tax basis for the company’s business
segments – Upstream and Downstream – as well as for “All Other.” Earnings are also presented for the U.S. and international
geographic areas of the Upstream and Downstream business segments. Refer to Note 13, beginning on page 66, for a
discussion of the company’s “reportable segments.” This section should also be read in
conjunction with the discussion in
“Business Environment
and Outlook” on pages 28 through 31.
U.S. Upstream
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Earnings $ 3,278 $ 3,640 $ (2,054)
U.S. upstream earnings were $3.28 billion in 2018, compared with $3.64 billion in 2017. The decrease in earnings was
primarily due to the absence of the 2017 benefit from U.S. tax reform of $3.33 billion, higher other tax items of $160 million
and higher exploration expense of $350 million, partially offset by higher crude oil realizations of $2.45 billion and higher
crude oil production of $1.12 billion.
U.S. upstream earnings were $3.64 billion in 2017, compared with a loss of $2.05 billion from 2016. The improvement in
earnings reflected a benefit of $3.33 billion from U.S. tax reform, higher crude oil and natural gas realizations of $1.3 billion
and lower depreciation expenses of $650 million, primarily reflecting a decrease in impairments and other asset write-offs.
Lower operating expenses of $140 million also contributed to the improvement.
The company’s average realization for U.S. crude oil and natural gas liquids in 2018 was $58.17 per barrel, compared with
$44.53 in 2017 and $35.00 in 2016. The average natural gas realization was $1.86 per thousand cubic feet in 2018, compared
with $2.10 in 2017 and $1.59 in 2016.
Net oil-equivalent production in 2018 averaged 791,000 barrels per day, up 16 percent from 2017 and up 14 percent from
2016. Between 2018 and 2017, production increases
from shale and tight properties in
the Permian Basin in Texas and New
32
/zero.tab
/three.tab/period.tab/five.tab
/two.tab/period.tab/five.tab
/two.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/three.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/period.tab/five.tab
/one.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/zero.tab/period.tab/five.tab
Exploration  expenses
Billions of dollars (before-tax) 
United States
International
/one.tab/five.tab/one.tab/four.tab/one.tab/six.tab/one.tab/seven.tab/one.tab/eight.tab
/dollar.tab/one.tab/period.tab/two.tab
(/four.tab/period.tab/zero.tab)
/two.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/eight.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/two.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/four.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/six.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
 
Worldwide Upstream 
earnings
Billions of dollars
United States
International
/one.tab/five.tab/one.tab/four.tab/one.tab/six.tab/one.tab/seven.tab/one.tab/eight.tab
/dollar.tab/one.tab/three.tab/period.tab/three.tab
United States
International
/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/eight.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/six.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/two.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/four.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
Worldwide Downstream 
earnings
Billions of dollars
/one.tab/five.tab/one.tab/four.tab/one.tab/six.tab/one.tab/seven.tab/one.tab/eight.tab
/dollar.tab/three.tab/period.tab/eight.tab
/zero.tab
/three.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab
/two.tab/two.tab/five.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/five.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab
/seven.tab/five.tab/zero.tab
Worldwide reﬁned 
product  sales
Thousands of barrels per day
Other
Fuel oil
Jet fuel
Diesel/Gas  oil
Gasoline
/two.tab/comma.tab/six.tab/five.tab/five.tab
/one.tab/five.tab/one.tab/four.tab /one.tab/six.tab /one.tab/seven.tab /one.tab/eight.tab
10K page 34
10K charts_2018_022619_v1.indd   2 2/26/2019   11:08:12 AM
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
32
143262_Financials.indd   32 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 25 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Mexico and base business in the Gulf of Mexico were partially offset by the effect of asset sales of 35,000 barrels per day.
Between 2017 and 2016, production increases from shale and tight properties in the Permian Basin in Texas and New
Mexico and base business in the Gulf of Mexico were more than offset by the effect of asset sales of 59,000 barrels per day
and normal field declines.
The net liquids component of oil-equivalent production for 2018 averaged 618,000 barrels per day, up 19 percent from 2017
and up 23 percent from 2016. Net natural gas production averaged 1.03 billion cubic feet per day in 2018, up 7 percent from
2017 and down 8 percent from 2016. Refer to the “Selected Operating Data” table on page 37 for a three-year comparison of
production volumes in the United States.
International Upstream
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Earnings* $ 10,038 $ 4,510 $ (483)
*Includes foreign currency effects: $ 545 $ (456) $ 122
International upstream earnings were $10.04 billion in 2018, compared with $4.51 billion in 2017. The increase in earnings
was primarily due to higher crude oil and natural gas realizations of $3.38 billion and $1.38 billion, respectively, higher
natural gas sales volumes of $1.67 billion, partially offset by lower gains on asset sales of $640 million, higher depreciation,
operating and tax expenses of $470 million, $460 million and $230 million, respectively. Foreign currency effects had a
favorable impact on earnings of $1.00 billion between periods.
International upstream earnings were $4.51 billion in 2017, compared with a loss of $483 million in 2016. The increase in
earnings was primarily due to higher crude oil realizations of $2.59 billion, higher natural gas sales volumes of $1.22 billion,
higher gains on asset sales of $750 million, and lower operating expenses of $410 million. Foreign currency effects had an
unfavorable impact on earnings of $578 million between periods.
The company’s average realization for international crude oil and natural gas liquids in 2018 was $64.25 per barrel,
compared with $49.46 in 2017 and $38.61 in 2016. The average natural gas realization was $6.29 per thousand cubic feet in
2018, compared with $4.62 and $4.02 in 2017 and 2016, respectively.
International net oil-equivalent production was 2.14 million barrels per day in 2018, up 4 percent from 2017 and up
12 percent from 2016. Between 2018 and 2017, production increases from major capital projects, primarily Wheatstone and
Gorgon in Australia, were partially offset by normal field declines, production entitlement effects and the impact of asset
sales of 14,000 barrels per day. Between 2017 and 2016, production increases from major capital projects and lower planned
maintenance-related downtime were partially offset by production entitlement effects in several locations and normal field
declines.
The net liquids component of international oil-equivalent production was 1.16 million barrels per day in 2018, down
3 percent from 2017 and down 4 percent from 2016. International net natural gas production of 5.86 billion cubic feet per day
in 2018 was up 16 percent from 2017 and up 42 percent from 2016.
Refer to the “Selected Operating Data” table, on page 37, for a three-year comparison of international production volumes.
U.S. Downstream
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Earnings $ 2,103 $ 2,938 $ 1,307
U.S. downstream operations earned $2.10 billion in 2018, compared with $2.94 billion in 2017. The decrease was mainly due
to the absence of the 2017 benefit from U.S. tax reform of $1.16 billion and higher operating expenses of $420 million,
primarily due to planned refinery turnaround activity. Partially offsetting these were higher margins on refined product sales
of $380 million and higher equity earnings from the 50 percent-owned CPChem of $320 million, primarily reflecting the
absence of impacts from Hurricane Harvey.
U.S. downstream operations earned $2.94 billion in 2017, compared with $1.31 billion in 2016. The increase was primarily
due to a $1.16 billion benefit from U.S. tax reform, higher margins on refined product sales of $380 million, lower operating
expenses of $160 million, and the absence of an asset impairment of $110 million. Partially offsetting this increase were
lower gains on asset sales of $90 million and lower earnings from the 50 percent-owned CPChem of $70 million, primarily
reflecting the impacts from Hurricane Harvey.
33
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
33
143262_Financials.indd   33 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 26 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Total refined product sales of 1.22 million barrels per day in 2018 were up 2 percent from 2017. Sales were 1.20 million
barrels per day in 2017, a decrease of 1 percent from 2016, primarily due to the divestment of Hawaii refining and marketing
assets in fourth quarter 2016.
Refer to the “Selected Operating Data” table on page 37 for a three-year comparison of sales volumes of gasoline and other
refined products and refinery input volumes.
International Downstream
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Earnings* $ 1,695 $ 2,276 $ 2,128
*Includes foreign currency effects: $ 71 $ (90) $ (25)
International downstream earned $1.70 billion in 2018, compared with $2.28 billion in 2017. The decrease in earnings was
largely due to lower margins on refined product sales of $590 million and lower gains on asset sales of $470 million,
partially offset by lower operating expenses of $290 million. The sale of the company’s Canadian refining and marketing
business in third quarter 2017 and the sale of the southern Africa refining and marketing business in third quarter 2018
primarily contributed to the lower margins and operating expenses. Foreign currency effects had a favorable impact on
earnings of $161 million between periods.
International downstream earned $2.28 billion in 2017, compared with $2.13 billion in 2016. The increase in earnings was
primarily due to higher gains on asset sales of $360 million, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $140 million.
Foreign currency effects had an unfavorable impact on earnings of $65 million between periods.
Total refined product sales of 1.44 million barrels per day in 2018 were down 4 percent from 2017, primarily due to the sales
of the company’s Canadian refining and marketing assets in third quarter 2017 and southern Africa refining and marketing
business in third quarter 2018. Sales of 1.49 million barrels per day in 2017 were up 2 percent from 2016, primarily due to
higher diesel and jet fuel sales.
Refer to the “Selected Operating Data” table on page 37, for a three-year comparison of sales volumes of gasoline and other
refined products and refinery input volumes.
All Other
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Net charges* $ (2,290) $ (4,169) $ (1,395)
*Includes foreign currency effects: $ (5) $ 100 $ (39)
All Other consists of worldwide cash management and debt financing activities, corporate administrative functions,
insurance operations, real estate activities, and technology companies.
Net charges in 2018 decreased $1.88 billion from 2017. The change between periods was mainly due to absence of a prior
year tax charge of $2.47 billion related to U.S. tax reform, lower employee expenses and the absence of a reclamation related
charge for a former mining asset, partially offset by other unfavorable tax items and higher interest expense. Foreign
currency effects increased net charges by $105 million between periods. Net charges in 2017 increased $2.77 billion from
2016, mainly due to higher tax items, primarily reflecting a $2.47 billion expense from U.S. tax reform, higher interest
expense and a reclamation related charge for a former mining asset, partially offset by lower employee expense. Foreign
currency effects decreased net charges by $139 million between periods.
Consolidated Statement of Income
Comparative amounts for certain income statement categories are shown below:
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Sales and other operating revenues $ 158,902 $ 134,674 $ 110,215
Sales and other operating revenues increased in 2018 mainly due to higher crude oil, refined product and natural gas prices.
The increase between 2017 and 2016 was primarily due to higher refined product and crude oil prices, higher crude oil
volumes, and higher natural gas volumes.
Beginning in 2018, excise, value-added and similar taxes collected on behalf of third parties were no longer included in
“Sales and other operating revenue”, but were netted in “Taxes other than on income” in accordance with ASU 2014-09.
2017 and 2016 include $7.19 billion and $6.91 billion, respectively, in taxes collected on behalf of third parties.
34
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
34
143262_Financials.indd   34 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 27 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Income from equity affiliates $ 6,327 $ 4,438 $ 2,661
Income from equity affiliates increased in 2018 from 2017 mainly due to higher upstream-related earnings from Tengizchevroil
in Kazakhstan, Petroboscan and Petropiar in Venezuela, and higher downstream-related earnings from CPChem.
Income from equity affiliates increased in 2017 from 2016 mainly due to higher upstream-related earnings from
Tengizchevroil in Kazakhstan and Angola LNG.
Refer to Note 14, beginning on page 69, for a discussion of Chevron’s investments in affiliated companies.
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Other income $ 1,110 $ 2,610 $ 1,596
Other income of $1.1 billion in 2018 included net gains from asset sales of $713 million before-tax. Other income in 2017
and 2016 included net gains from asset sales of $2.2 billion and $1.1 billion before-tax, respectively. Interest income was
approximately $192 million in 2018, $107 million in 2017 and $145 million in 2016. Foreign currency effects decreased
other income by $123 million in 2018, $131 million in 2017, and $186 million in 2016.
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Purchased crude oil and products $ 94,578 $ 75,765 $ 59,321
Crude oil and product purchases increased $18.8 billion in 2018, primarily due to higher crude oil and refined product prices,
partially offset by lower crude oil volumes. Purchases increased $16.4 billion in 2017, primarily due to higher crude oil and
refined product prices, and higher refined product and crude oil volumes.
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses $ 24,382 $ 23,237 $ 24,207
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.1 billion between 2018 and 2017. The increase included
higher services and fees of $450 million, a receivable write-down for $270 million, higher transportation expenses of
$200 million, and a contractual settlement for $180 million.
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $1.0 billion between 2017 and 2016. The decrease
included lower employee expenses of $690 million and non-operated joint venture expenses of $380 million.
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Exploration expense $ 1,210 $ 864 $ 1,033
Exploration expenses in 2018 increased from 2017 primarily due to higher charges for well write-offs, partially offset by
lower geological and geophysical expenses. Exploration expenses in 2017 decreased from 2016 primarily due to lower
charges for well write-offs.
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Depreciation, depletion and amortization $ 19,419 $ 19,349 $ 19,457
Depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses increased in 2018 from 2017 mainly due to higher production levels for
certain oil and gas producing fields, partially offset by lower depreciation rates for certain oil and gas producing fields, and
lower impairment charges.
The decrease in 2017 from 2016 was primarily due to lower impairments and lower depreciation rates for certain oil and gas
producing properties, and the absence of a 2016 impairment of a downstream asset. Partially offsetting the decrease were
higher production levels, accretion and write-offs for certain oil and gas producing fields, and a reclamation related charge
for a former mining asset.
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Taxes other than on income $ 4,867 $ 12,331 $ 11,668
Beginning in 2018, excise, value-added and similar taxes collected on behalf of third parties were netted in “Taxes other than on
income” and were no longer included in “Sales and other operating revenues,” in accordance with ASU 2014-09. 2017 and 2016
include $7.19 billion and $6.91 billion, respectively, in taxes collected on behalf of third parties. The further decrease in 2018
from 2017 was mainly due to lower local and municipal taxes and licenses, partially offset by higher duties reflecting
35
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
35
143262_Financials.indd   35 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 28 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
increased production. Taxes other than on income increased in 2017 from 2016 primarily due to higher duties, higher crude
oil, refined product and natural gas sales, and higher production.
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Interest and debt expense $ 748 $ 307 $ 201
Interest and debt expenses increased in 2018 from 2017 mainly due to a decrease in the amount of interest capitalized.
Interest and debt expenses increased in 2017 from 2016 due to higher interest costs on long-term debt, partially offset by an
increase in the amount of interest capitalized.
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Other components of net periodic benefit costs $ 560 $ 648 $ 745
Other components of net periodic benefit costs decreased in 2018 from 2017 primarily due to a higher asset base for expected
returns and a decrease in recognized actuarial losses arising during the period. The decrease in 2017 from 2016 was mainly
due to lower interest costs, lower settlement costs, and a decrease in amortization of prior service costs, partially offset by an
increase in plan asset values. This line was added to the Consolidated Statement of Income in accordance with the adoption
of ASU 2017-07.
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Income tax expense (benefit) $ 5,715 $ (48) $ (1,729)
The increase in income tax expense in 2018 of $5.76 billion is due to the increase in total income before tax for the company
of $11.35 billion and the absence of the remeasurement benefits from U.S. tax reform recognized in 2017.
U.S. income before tax increased from a loss of $441 million in 2017 to a profit of $4.73 billion in 2018. This increase in
earnings before tax was primarily driven by the effect of higher crude oil prices. The U.S. tax charge increased by
$3.69 billion between year-over-year periods from a $2.97 billion benefit in 2017 to a $724 million charge in 2018. 2017
included a $2.02 billion benefit from U.S. tax reform, which primarily reflected the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax
assets and liabilities.
International income before tax increased from $9.66 billion in 2017 to $15.84 billion in 2018. This $6.18 billion increase was
primarily driven by the effect of higher crude oil prices. The higher crude prices primarily drove the $2.06 billion increase in
international income tax expense between year-over-year periods, from $2.93 billion in 2017 to $4.99 billion in 2018.
The decline in income tax benefit in 2017 of $1.68 billion is due to the increase in total income before tax for the company of
$11.38 billion and the remeasurement impacts of U.S. tax reform. U.S. losses before tax decreased from a loss of
$4.32 billion in 2016 to a loss of $441 million in 2017. This decrease in losses before tax was primarily driven by the effect
of higher crude oil prices. The U.S. tax benefit increased by $650 million between year-over-year periods from $2.32 billion
in 2016 to $2.97 billion in 2017. The U.S. tax benefit for 2017 included a $2.02 billion benefit from U.S. tax reform, which
primarily reflected the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities, and a reduction of $1.37 billion as result of
the impact of a decrease in losses before tax of $3.88 billion.
International income before tax increased from $2.16 billion in 2016 to $9.66 billion in 2017. This $7.50 billion increase was
primarily driven by the effect of higher crude oil prices and gains on asset sales primarily in Indonesia and Canada. The
higher crude prices primarily drove the $2.34 billion increase in international income tax expense between year-over-year
periods, from $588 million in 2016 to $2.93 billion in 2017.
Refer also to the discussion of the effective income tax rate in Note 16 on page 74.
36
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
36
143262_Financials.indd   36 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 29 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Selected Operating Data1,2
2018 2017 2016
U.S. Upstream
Net Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids Production (MBPD) 618 519 504
Net Natural Gas Production (MMCFPD) 3 1,034 970 1,120
Net Oil-Equivalent Production (MBOEPD) 791 681 691
Sales of Natural Gas (MMCFPD) 3,481 3,331 3,317
Sales of Natural Gas Liquids (MBPD) 110 30 30
Revenues from Net Production
Liquids ($/Bbl) $ 58.17 $ 44.53 $ 35.00
Natural Gas ($/MCF) $ 1.86 $ 2.10 $ 1.59
International Upstream
Net Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids Production (MBPD)
4 1,164 1,204 1,215
Net Natural Gas Production (MMCFPD) 3 5,855 5,062 4,132
Net Oil-Equivalent Production (MBOEPD) 4 2,139 2,047 1,903
Sales of Natural Gas (MMCFPD) 5,604 5,081 4,491
Sales of Natural Gas Liquids (MBPD) 34 29 24
Revenues from Liftings
Liquids ($/Bbl) $ 64.25 $ 49.46 $ 38.61
Natural Gas ($/MCF) $ 6.29 $ 4.62 $ 4.02
Worldwide Upstream
Net Oil-Equivalent Production (MBOEPD)
4
United States 791 681 691
International 2,139 2,047 1,903
Total 2,930 2,728 2,594
U.S. Downstream
Gasoline Sales (MBPD)
5 627 625 631
Other Refined Product Sales (MBPD) 591 572 582
Total Refined Product Sales (MBPD) 1,218 1,197 1,213
Sales of Natural Gas Liquids (MBPD) 74 109 115
Refinery Input (MBPD)6 905 901 900
International Downstream
Gasoline Sales (MBPD)
5 336 365 382
Other Refined Product Sales (MBPD) 1,101 1,128 1,080
Total Refined Product Sales (MBPD) 7 1,437 1,493 1,462
Sales of Natural Gas Liquids (MBPD) 62 64 61
Refinery Input (MBPD)8 706 760 788
1 Includes company share of equity affiliates.
2 MBPD – thousands of barrels per day; MMCFPD – millions of cubic feet per day; MBOEPD – thousands of barrels of oil-equivalents per day; Bbl – barrel; MCF –
thousands of cubic feet. Oil-equivalent gas (OEG) conversion ratio is 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas = 1 barrel of crude oil.
3 Includes natural gas consumed in operations (MMCFPD):
United States 35 37 54
International 584 528 432
4 Includes net production of synthetic oil:
Canada 53 51 50
Venezuela affiliate 24 28 28
5 Includes branded and unbranded gasoline.
6 In November 2016, the company sold its interests in the Hawaii Refinery, which included operable capacity of
54,000 barrels per day.
7 Includes sales of affiliates (MBPD): 373 366 377
8 In September 2018, the company sold its interest in the Cape Town Refinery in Cape Town, South Africa, which had an operable capacity of 110,000 barrels per day. In
September 2017, the company sold the Burnaby Refinery in British Columbia, Canada, which had operable capacity of 55,000 barrels per day.
37
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
37
143262_Financials.indd   37 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 30 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Sources and uses of cash
The strength of the company’s balance sheet enabled it to fund any timing differences throughout the year between cash
inflows and outflows.
Cash, Cash Equivalents, Marketable Securities and Time Deposits Total balances were $10.3 billion and $4.8 billion at
December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Cash provided by operating activities in 2018 was $30.6 billion, compared with
$20.3 billion in 2017 and $12.7 billion in 2016, reflecting higher crude oil prices and increased production. Cash provided by
operating activities was net of contributions to employee pension plans of approximately $1.0 billion in 2018, $1.0 billion in
2017 and $0.9 billion in 2016. Cash provided by investing activities included proceeds and deposits related to asset sales of
$2.0 billion in 2018, $4.9 billion in 2017 and $3.2 billion in 2016.
Restricted cash of $1.1 billion and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, was held in cash and short-term
marketable securities and recorded as “Deferred charges and other assets” and “Prepaid expenses and other current assets” on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet. These amounts are generally associated with upstream abandonment activities, tax
payments, funds held in escrow for tax-deferred exchanges and refundable deposits related to pending asset sales.
Dividends Dividends paid to common stockholders were $8.5 billion in 2018, $8.1 billion in 2017 and $8.0 billion in 2016.
Debt and Capital Lease Obligations Total debt and capital lease obligations were $34.5 billion at December 31, 2018, down
from $38.8 billion at year-end 2017.
The $4.3 billion decrease in total debt and capital lease obligations during 2018 was primarily due to the repayment of long-
term notes totaling $6.7 billion as they matured during 2018, partly offset by an increase in commercial paper. The
company’s debt and capital lease obligations due within one year, consisting primarily of
commercial paper, redeemable
long-term obligations and the current portion of long-term debt, totaled $15.6 billion at December 31, 2018, compared with
$15.2 billion
at year-end 2017. Of these amounts, $9.9 billion and $10.0 billion were reclassified to long-term debt at the end
of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
At year-end 2018, settlement of these obligations was not expected to require the use of working capital in 2019, as the
company had the intent and the ability, as evidenced by committed credit facilities, to refinance them on a long-term basis.
Chevron has an automatic shelf registration statement that expires in May 2021 for an unspecified amount of nonconvertible
debt securities issued or guaranteed by the company.
38
/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/five.tab/five.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/two.tab/two.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/four.tab/four.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/one.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/three.tab/three.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
Sources and uses of cash*
Billions of dollars
Sources of cash: 
 Other
 Asset sales 
 Net debt issuance
 Cash ﬂow from operations
Uses of cash: 
 Other
 Net debt repayment
 Share  repurchases  
 Dividends
 Capital expenditures
* Includes cash and cash equivalents, time deposits and marketable securities. 
 2017 and 2016 adjusted to conform to Accounting Standards Update 2016-15 and 2016-18.
/two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/four.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/five.tab
/dollar.tab/two.tab/nine.tab/period.tab/zero.tab/dollar.tab/two.tab/six.tab/period.tab/five.tab
/two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/six.tab /two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/eight.tab/two.tab/zero.tab/one.tab/seven.tab
Sources       UsesSources       Uses Sources       Uses Sources       UsesSources       Uses
/dollar.tab/four.tab/eight.tab/period.tab/three.tab
/dollar.tab/four.tab/five.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/dollar.tab/two.tab/eight.tab/period.tab/two.tab
/dollar.tab/two.tab/four.tab/period.tab/two.tab
/dollar.tab/three.tab/seven.tab/period.tab/eight.tab/dollar.tab/three.tab/five.tab/period.tab/nine.tab
/dollar.tab/two.tab/eight.tab/period.tab/six.tab
/dollar.tab/three.tab/four.tab/period.tab/two.tab
10k 40
10K charts_2018_022619_v1.indd   3 2/26/2019   11:08:12 AM
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
38
143262_Financials.indd   38 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 31 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate the company’s debt, and the company’s cost of borrowing can increase or
decrease depending on these debt ratings. The company has outstanding public bonds issued by Chevron Corporation and
Texaco Capital Inc. All of these securities are the obligations of, or guaranteed by, Chevron Corporation and are rated AA by
Standard and Poor’s Corporation and Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service. The company’s U.S. commercial paper is rated
A-1+ by Standard and Poor’s and P-1 by Moody’s. All of these ratings denote high-quality, investment-grade securities.
The company’s future debt level is dependent primarily on results of operations, cash that may be generated from asset
dispositions, the capital program and shareholder distributions. Based on its high-quality debt ratings, the company believes
that it has substantial borrowing capacity to meet unanticipated cash requirements. During extended periods of low prices for
crude oil and natural gas and narrow margins for refined products and commodity chemicals, the company can also modify
capital spending plans and discontinue or curtail the stock repurchase program to provide flexibility to continue paying the
common stock dividend and also remain committed to retaining the company’s high-quality debt ratings.
Committed Credit Facilities Information related to committed credit facilities is included in Note 18, Short-Term Debt, on
page 77.
Common
Stock Repurchase Program In July 2010, the Board of Directors approved an ongoing stock repurchase program
with no set term or monetary limits. From the inception of the program through the end of 2018, the company purchased
195.8 million shares for $21.75 billion, including 14.9 million shares for $1.75 billion in the second half 2018. On
February 1, 2019, the company announced that the Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program with a
maximum dollar limit of $25 billion and no set term limits. Repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market,
by block purchases, in privately negotiated transactions or in such other manner as determined by the company. The timing
of the repurchases and the actual amount repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including the market price of the
company’s shares, general market and economic conditions, and other factors. The stock repurchase program does not
obligate the company to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and it may be suspended or discontinued at any
time.
Capital and
Exploratory Expenditures
Capital and exploratory expenditures by business segment for 2018, 2017 and 2016 are as follows:
2018 2017 2016
Millions of dollars U.S. Int’l. Total U.S. Int’l. Total U.S. Int’l. Total
Upstream $ 7,128 $ 10,529 $17,657 $ 5,145 $ 11,243 $16,388 $ 4,713 $ 15,403 $ 20,116
Downstream 1,582 611 2,193 1,656 534 2,190 1,545 527 2,072
All Other 243 13 256 239 4 243 235 5 240
Total $ 8,953 $ 11,153 $20,106 $ 7,040 $ 11,781 $18,821 $ 6,493 $ 15,935 $ 22,428
Total, Excluding Equity in Affiliates $ 8,651 $ 5,739 $14,390 $ 6,295 $ 7,783 $14,078 $ 5,456 $ 13,202 $ 18,658
39
/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/four.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/two.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/three.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
Cash provided by
operating  activities
Billions of dollars
/one.tab/five.tab/one.tab/four.tab/one.tab/six.tab/one.tab/seven.tab/one.tab/eight.tab
/dollar.tab/three.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/six.tab
/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/five.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/three.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/four.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/two.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
  
Total debt at year-end
Billions of dollars
/one.tab/five.tab/one.tab/four.tab/one.tab/six.tab/one.tab/seven.tab/one.tab/eight.tab
/dollar.tab/three.tab/four.tab/period.tab/five.tab
/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/five.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/four.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/three.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
Percent
/two.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
Ratio of total debt to total 
debt-plus-Chevron Corporation 
stockholders’  equity 
/one.tab/five.tab/one.tab/four.tab/one.tab/six.tab/one.tab/seven.tab/one.tab/eight.tab
/one.tab/eight.tab/period.tab/two.tab/percent.tab
/five.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/two.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/four.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/one.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
/three.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/zero.tab
Capital & exploratory
expenditures*
Billions of dollars
All Other 
Downstream  
Upstream
*  Includes equity in afﬁliates.
/one.tab/five.tab/one.tab/four.tab /one.tab/six.tab /one.tab/seven.tab /one.tab/eight.tab
/dollar.tab/two.tab/zero.tab/period.tab/one.tab
10K page 41
10K charts_2018_022619_v1.indd   1 2/26/2019   11:08:12 AM
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
39
143262_Financials.indd   39 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 32 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Total expenditures for 2018 were $20.1 billion, including $5.7 billion for the company’s share of equity-affiliate
expenditures, which did not require cash outlays by the company. In 2017 and 2016, expenditures were $18.8 billion and
$22.4 billion, respectively, including the company’s share of affiliates’ expenditures of $4.7 billion and $3.8 billion,
respectively.
Of the $20.1 billion of expenditures in 2018, 88 percent, or $17.7 billion, related to upstream activities. Approximately
87 percent was expended for upstream operations in 2017 and 90 percent in 2016. International upstream accounted for
60 percent of the worldwide upstream investment in 2018, 69 percent in 2017 and 77 percent in 2016.
The company estimates that 2019 capital and exploratory expenditures will be $20 billion, including $6.3 billion of spending
by affiliates. This is in line with 2018 expenditures, and reflects a robust portfolio of upstream and downstream investments,
highlighted by the company’s Permian Basin position, and additional shale and tight development in other basins.
Approximately 87 percent of the total, or $17.3 billion, is budgeted for exploration and production activities. Approximately
$10.4 billion of planned upstream capital spending relates to base producing assets, including $3.6 billion for the Permian
and $1.6 billion for other shale and tight rock investments. Approximately $5.1 billion of the upstream program is planned
for major capital projects underway, including $4.3 billion associated with the Future Growth and Wellhead Pressure
Management Project at the Tengiz field in Kazakhstan. Global exploration funding is expected to be about $1.3 billion.
Remaining upstream spend is budgeted for early stage projects supporting potential future developments. The company will
continue to monitor crude oil market conditions and expects to further restrict capital outlays should oil price conditions
deteriorate.
Worldwide downstream spending in 2019 is estimated to be $2.5 billion, with $1.5 billion estimated for projects in the
United States.
Investments in technology businesses and other corporate operations in 2019 are budgeted at $0.2 billion.
Noncontrolling Interests The company had noncontrolling interests of $1.1 billion at December 31, 2018 and $1.2 billion at
December 31, 2017. Distributions to noncontrolling interests totaled $91 million and $78 million in 2018 and 2017,
respectively.
Pension Obligations Information related to pension plan contributions is included beginning on page 81 in Note 22,
Employee Benefit Plans, under the heading “Cash Contributions and Benefit Payments.”
Financial Ratios
At December 31
2018 2017 2016
Current Ratio 1.3 1.0 0.9
Interest Coverage Ratio 23.4 10.7 (2.6)
Debt Ratio 18.2 % 20.7 % 24.1 %
Current Ratio Current assets divided by current liabilities, which indicates the company’s ability to repay its short-term
liabilities with short-term assets. The current ratio in all periods was adversely affected by the fact that Chevron’s inventories
are valued on a last-in, first-out basis. At year-end 2018, the book value of inventory was lower than replacement costs,
based on average acquisition costs during the year, by approximately $5.1 billion.
Interest Coverage Ratio Income before income tax expense, plus interest and debt expense and amortization of capitalized
interest, less net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, divided by before-tax interest costs. This ratio indicates the
company’s ability to pay interest on outstanding debt. The company’s interest coverage ratio in 2018 was higher than 2017
and 2016 due to higher income.
Debt Ratio Total debt as a percentage of total debt plus Chevron Corporation Stockholders’ Equity, which indicates the
company’s leverage. The company’s debt ratio was 18.2 percent at year-end 2018, compared with 20.7 percent and
24.1 percent at year-end 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, Guarantees and Other Contingencies
Long-Term Unconditional Purchase Obligations and Commitments, Including Throughput and Take-or-Pay Agreements
Information related to these matters is included on page 86 in Note 23, Other Contingencies and Commitments.
40
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
40
143262_Financials.indd   40 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 33 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following table summarizes the company’s significant contractual obligations:
Payments Due by Period
Millions of dollars Total1 2019 2020-2021 2022-2023 After 2023
On Balance Sheet:2
Short-Term Debt3 $ 5,727 $ 5,727 $ — $ — $ —
Long-Term Debt3, 4 28,630 — 17,226 7,053 4,351
Noncancelable Capital Lease Obligations 233 30 39 32 132
Interest 4,736 801 1,278 936 1,721
Off Balance Sheet:
Noncancelable Operating Lease Obligations 2,159 540 870 408 341
Throughput and Take-or-Pay Agreements 5 7,797 773 1,523 1,208 4,293
Other Unconditional Purchase Obligations 5 2,526 565 963 569 429
1 Excludes contributions for pensions and other postretirement benefit plans. Information on employee benefit plans is contained in Note 22 beginning on page 81.
2 Does not include amounts related to the company’s income tax liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. The company is unable to make reasonable estimates of the
periods in which such liabilities may become payable. The company does not expect settlement of such liabilities to have a material effect on its consolidated financial position
or liquidity in any single period.
3 $9.9 billion of short-term debt that the company expects to refinance is included in long-term debt. The repayment schedule above reflects the projected repayment of the entire
amounts in the 2020–2021 period. The amounts represent only the principal balance.
4 Excludes capital lease obligations.
5 Does not include commodity purchase obligations that are not fixed or determinable. These obligations are generally monetized in a relatively short period of time through
sales transactions or similar agreements with third parties. Examples include obligations to purchase LNG, regasified natural gas and refinery products at indexed prices.
As part of the implementation of ASU 2016-02 (Leases) effective January 1, 2019, the company will reclassify some
contracts, currently incorporated into the unconditional purchase obligations disclosure, as operating leases in first quarter
2019 results.
Direct Guarantees
Commitment Expiration by Period
Millions of dollars Total 2019 2020-2021 2022-2023 After 2023
Guarantee of nonconsolidated affiliate or joint-venture obligations $ 968 $ 264 $ 489 $ 77 $ 138
Additional information related to guarantees is included on page 86 in Note 23, Other Contingencies and Commitments.
Indemnifications Information related to indemnifications is included on page 86 in Note 23, Other Contingencies and
Commitments.
Financial and Derivative Instrument Market Risk
The market risk associated with the company’s portfolio of financial and derivative instruments is discussed below. The
estimates of financial exposure to market risk do not represent the company’s projection of future market changes. The actual
impact of future market changes could differ materially due to factors discussed elsewhere in this report, including those set
forth under the heading “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, of the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Derivative Commodity Instruments Chevron is exposed to market risks related to the price volatility of crude oil, refined
products, natural gas, natural gas liquids, liquefied natural gas and refinery feedstocks. The company uses derivative
commodity instruments to manage these exposures on a portion of its activity, including firm commitments and anticipated
transactions for the purchase, sale and storage of crude oil, refined products, natural gas, natural gas liquids and feedstock for
company refineries. The company also uses derivative commodity instruments for limited trading purposes. The results of
these activities were not material to the company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows in 2018.
The company’s market exposure positions are monitored on a daily basis by an internal Risk Control group in accordance
with the company’s risk management policies. The company’s risk management practices and its compliance with policies
are reviewed by the Audit Committee of the company’s Board of Directors.
Derivatives beyond those designated as normal purchase and normal sale contracts are recorded at fair value on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet with resulting gains and losses reflected in income. Fair values are derived principally from
published market quotes and other independent third-party quotes. The change in fair value of Chevron’s derivative
commodity instruments in 2018 was not material to the company’s results of operations.
The company uses the Monte Carlo simulation method as its Value-at-Risk (VaR) model to estimate the maximum potential
loss in fair value, at the 95% confidence level with a one-day holding period, from the effect of adverse changes in market
41
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
41
143262_Financials.indd   41 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 34 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
conditions on derivative commodity instruments held or issued. Based on these inputs, the VaR for the company’s primary
risk exposures in the area of derivative commodity instruments at December 31, 2018 and 2017 was not material to the
company’s cash flows or results of operations.
Foreign Currency The company may enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to manage some of its foreign
currency exposures. These exposures include revenue and anticipated purchase transactions, including foreign currency
capital expenditures and lease commitments. The foreign currency derivative contracts, if any, are recorded at fair value on
the balance sheet with resulting gains and losses reflected in income. There were no open foreign currency derivative
contracts at December 31, 2018.
Interest Rates The company may enter into interest rate swaps from time to time as part of its overall strategy to manage the
interest rate risk on its debt. Interest rate swaps, if any, are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with resulting gains and
losses reflected in income. At year-end 2018, the company had no interest rate swaps.
Transactions With Related Parties
Chevron enters into a number of business arrangements with related parties, principally its equity affiliates. These
arrangements include long-term supply or offtake agreements and long-term purchase agreements. Refer to “Other
Information” on page 70, in Note 14, Investments and Advances, for further discussion. Management believes these
agreements have been negotiated on terms consistent with those that would have been negotiated with an unrelated party.
Litigation and Other Contingencies
MTBE Information related to methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) matters is included on page 70 in Note 15 under the
heading “MTBE.”
Ecuador Information related to Ecuador matters is included in Note 15 under the heading “Ecuador,” beginning on page 70.
Environmental The following table displays the annual changes to the company’s before-tax environmental remediation
reserves, including those for federal Superfund sites and analogous sites under state laws.
Millions of dollars 2018 2017 2016
Balance at January 1 $ 1,429 $ 1,467 $ 1,578
Net Additions 197 323 260
Expenditures (299) (361) (371)
Balance at December 31 $ 1,327 $ 1,429 $ 1,467
The company records asset retirement obligations when there is a legal obligation associated with the retirement of long-
lived assets and the liability can be reasonably estimated. These asset retirement obligations include costs related to
environmental issues. The liability balance of approximately $14.1 billion for asset retirement obligations at year-end 2018
related primarily to upstream properties.
For the company’s other ongoing operating assets, such as refineries and chemicals facilities, no provisions are made for exit
or cleanup costs that may be required when such assets reach the end of their useful lives unless a decision to sell or
otherwise abandon the facility has been made, as the indeterminate settlement dates for the asset retirements prevent
estimation of the fair value of the asset retirement obligation.
Refer to the discussion below for additional information on environmental matters and their impact on Chevron, and on the
company’s 2018 environmental expenditures. Refer to Note 23 on page 86 for additional discussion of environmental
remediation provisions and year-end reserves. Refer also to Note 24 on page 88 for additional discussion of the company’s
asset retirement obligations.
Suspended Wells Information related to suspended wells is included in Note 20, Accounting for Suspended Exploratory
Wells, beginning on page 79.
Income Taxes Information related to income tax contingencies is included on pages 74 through 76 in Note 16 and page 86 in
Note 23 under the heading “Income Taxes.”
Other Contingencies Information related to other contingencies is included on page 87 in Note 23 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements under the heading “Other Contingencies.”
42
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
42
143262_Financials.indd   42 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 35 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Environmental Matters
The company is subject to various international, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws, regulations
and market-based programs. These laws, regulations and programs continue to evolve and are expected to increase in both
number and complexity over time and govern not only the manner in which the company conducts its operations, but also the
products it sells. For example, international agreements and national, regional, and state legislation (e.g., California AB32,
SB32 and AB398) and regulatory measures that aim to limit or reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are currently in
various stages of implementation. Consideration of GHG issues and the responses to those issues through international
agreements and national, regional or state legislation or regulations are integrated into the company’s strategy and planning,
capital investment reviews and risk management tools and processes, where applicable. They are also factored into the
company’s long-range supply, demand and energy price forecasts. These forecasts reflect long-range effects from renewable
fuel penetration, energy efficiency standards, climate-related policy actions, and demand response to oil and natural gas
prices. In addition, legislation and regulations intended to address hydraulic fracturing also continue to evolve at the national,
state and local levels. Refer to “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, on pages 18 through 21 of the company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for a discussion of some of the inherent risks of increasingly restrictive environmental and other regulation that
could materially impact the company’s results of operations or financial condition.
Most of the costs of complying with existing laws and regulations pertaining to company operations and products are
embedded in the normal costs of doing business. However, it is not possible to predict with certainty the amount of additional
investments in new or existing technology or facilities or the amounts of increased operating costs to be incurred in the future
to: prevent, control, reduce or eliminate releases of hazardous materials or other pollutants into the environment; remediate
and restore areas damaged by prior releases of hazardous materials; or comply with new environmental laws or regulations.
Although these costs may be significant to the results of operations in any single period, the company does not presently
expect them to have a material adverse effect on the company’s liquidity or financial position.
Accidental leaks and spills requiring cleanup may occur in the ordinary course of business. The company may incur expenses
for corrective actions at various owned and previously owned facilities and at third-party-owned waste disposal sites used by
the company. An obligation may arise when operations are closed or sold or at non-Chevron sites where company products
have been handled or disposed of. Most of the expenditures to fulfill these obligations relate to facilities and sites where past
operations followed practices and procedures that were considered acceptable at the time but now require investigative or
remedial work or both to meet current standards.
Using definitions and guidelines established by the American Petroleum Institute, Chevron estimated its worldwide
environmental spending in 2018 at approximately $2.0 billion for its consolidated companies. Included in these expenditures
were approximately $0.5 billion of environmental capital expenditures and $1.5 billion of costs associated with the
prevention, control, abatement or elimination of hazardous substances and pollutants from operating, closed or divested sites,
and the abandonment and restoration of sites.
For 2019, total worldwide environmental capital expenditures are estimated at $0.5 billion. These capital costs are in addition
to the ongoing costs of complying with environmental regulations and the costs to remediate previously contaminated sites.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions
Management makes many estimates and assumptions in the application of generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) that may have a material impact on the company’s consolidated financial statements and related disclosures and on
the comparability of such information over different reporting periods. Such estimates and assumptions affect reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Estimates and
assumptions are based on management’s experience and other information available prior to the issuance of the financial
statements. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known.
The discussion in this section of “critical” accounting estimates and assumptions is according to the disclosure guidelines of
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), wherein:
1. the nature of the estimates and assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment
necessary to account for highly uncertain matters, or the susceptibility of such matters to change; and
2. the impact of the estimates and assumptions on the company’s financial condition or operating performance is
material.
The development and selection of accounting estimates and assumptions, including those deemed “critical,” and the
associated disclosures in this discussion have been discussed by management with the Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors. The areas of accounting and the associated “critical” estimates and assumptions made by the company are as
follows:
43
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
43
143262_Financials.indd   43 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 36 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Oil and Gas Reserves Crude oil and natural gas reserves are estimates of future production that impact certain asset and
expense accounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Proved reserves are the estimated quantities of oil and
gas that geoscience and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be economically producible in the future
under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. Proved reserves include both developed
and undeveloped volumes. Proved developed reserves represent volumes expected to be recovered through existing wells
with existing equipment and operating methods. Proved undeveloped reserves are volumes expected to be recovered from
new wells on undrilled proved acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for
recompletion. Variables impacting Chevron’s estimated volumes of crude oil and natural gas reserves include field
performance, available technology, commodity prices, and development and production costs.
The estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves are important to the timing of expense recognition for costs incurred and
to the valuation of certain oil and gas producing assets. Impacts of oil and gas reserves on Chevron’s Consolidated Financial
Statements, using the successful efforts method of accounting, include the following:
1. Amortization - Capitalized exploratory drilling and development costs are depreciated on a unit-of-production
(UOP) basis using proved developed reserves. Acquisition costs of proved properties are amortized on a UOP
basis using total proved reserves. During 2018, Chevron’s UOP Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization
(DD&A) for oil and gas properties was $14.8 billion, and proved developed reserves at the beginning of 2018
were 6.1 billion barrels for consolidated companies. If the estimates of proved reserves used in the UOP
calculations for consolidated operations had been lower by 5 percent across all oil and gas properties, UOP
DD&A in 2018 would have increased by approximately $800 million.
2. Impairment - Oil and gas reserves are used in assessing oil and gas producing properties for impairment. A
significant reduction in the estimated reserves of a property would trigger an impairment review. Proved
reserves (and, in some cases, a portion of unproved resources) are used to estimate future production volumes
in the cash flow model. For a further discussion of estimates and assumptions used in impairment
assessments, see Impairment of Properties, Plant and Equipment and Investments in Affiliates below.
Refer to Table V, “Reserve Quantity Information,” beginning on page 95, for the changes in proved reserve estimates for the
three years ended December 31, 2018, and to Table VII, “Changes in the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net
Cash Flows From Proved Reserves” on page 101 for estimates of proved reserve values for each of the three years ended
December 31, 2018.
This Oil and Gas Reserves commentary should be read in conjunction with the Properties, Plant and Equipment section of
Note 1, beginning on page 55, which includes a description of the “successful efforts” method of accounting for oil and gas
exploration and production activities.
Impairment of Properties, Plant and Equipment and Investments in Affiliates The company assesses its properties, plant
and equipment (PP&E) for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value
of the assets may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of an asset exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows expected
from the asset, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess of carrying value of the asset over its estimated fair value.
Determination as to whether and how much an asset is impaired involves management estimates on highly uncertain matters,
such as future commodity prices, the effects of inflation and technology improvements on operating expenses, production
profiles, and the outlook for global or regional market supply-and-demand conditions for crude oil, natural gas, commodity
chemicals and refined products. However, the impairment reviews and calculations are based on assumptions that are
generally consistent with the company’s business plans and long-term investment decisions. Refer also to the discussion of
impairments of properties, plant and equipment in Note 17 on page 77 and to the section on Properties, Plant and Equipment
in Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” beginning on page 55.
The company routinely performs impairment reviews when triggering events arise to determine whether any write-down in the
carrying value of an asset or asset group is required. For example, when significant downward revisions to crude oil and natural
gas reserves are made for any single field or concession, an impairment review is performed to determine if the carrying value
of the asset remains recoverable. Similarly, a significant downward revision in the company’s crude oil or natural gas price
outlook would trigger impairment reviews for impacted upstream assets. In addition, impairments could occur due to changes in
national, state or local environmental regulations or laws, including those designed to stop or impede the development or
production of oil and gas. Also, if the expectation of sale of a particular asset or asset group in any period has been deemed more
likely than not, an impairment review is performed, and if the estimated net proceeds exceed the carrying value of the asset or
asset group, no impairment charge is required. Such calculations are reviewed each period until the asset or asset group is
disposed. Assets that are not impaired on a held-and-used basis could possibly become impaired if a decision
44
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
44
143262_Financials.indd   44 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 37 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
is made to sell such assets. That is, the assets would be impaired if they are classified as held-for-sale and the estimated
proceeds from the sale, less costs to sell, are less than the assets’ associated carrying values.
Investments in common stock of affiliates that are accounted for under the equity method, as well as investments in other
securities of these equity investees, are reviewed for impairment when the fair value of the investment falls below the
company’s carrying value. When this occurs, a determination must be made as to whether this loss is other-than-temporary,
in which case the investment is impaired. Because of the number of differing assumptions potentially affecting whether an
investment is impaired in any period or the amount of the impairment, a sensitivity analysis is not practicable.
No individually material impairments of PP&E or Investments were recorded for 2018 or 2017. The company reported
impairments for certain oil and gas properties in Brazil and the United States during 2016 due to reservoir performance and
lower crude oil prices. A sensitivity analysis of the impact on earnings for these periods if other assumptions had been used
in impairment reviews and impairment calculations is not practicable, given the broad range of the company’s PP&E and the
number of assumptions involved in the estimates. That is, favorable changes to some assumptions might have avoided the
need to impair any assets in these periods, whereas unfavorable changes might have caused an additional unknown number
of other assets to become impaired, or resulted in larger impacts on impaired assets.
Asset Retirement Obligations In the determination of fair value for an asset retirement obligation (ARO), the company uses
various assumptions and judgments, including such factors as the existence of a legal obligation, estimated amounts and
timing of settlements, discount and inflation rates, and the expected impact of advances in technology and process
improvements. A sensitivity analysis of the ARO impact on earnings for 2018 is not practicable, given the broad range of the
company’s long-lived assets and the number of assumptions involved in the estimates. That is, favorable changes to some
assumptions would have reduced estimated future obligations, thereby lowering accretion expense and amortization costs,
whereas unfavorable changes would have the opposite effect. Refer to Note 24 on page 88 for additional discussions on asset
retirement obligations.
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Note 22, beginning on page 81, includes information on the funded status
of the company’s pension and other postretirement benefit (OPEB) plans reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet; the
components of pension and OPEB expense reflected on the Consolidated Statement of Income; and the related underlying
assumptions.
The determination of pension plan expense and obligations is based on a number of actuarial assumptions. Two critical
assumptions are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate applied to pension plan obligations.
Critical assumptions in determining expense and obligations for OPEB plans, which provide for certain health care and life
insurance benefits for qualifying retired employees and which are not funded, are the discount rate and the assumed health
care cost-trend rates. Information related to the company’s processes to develop these assumptions is included on page 83 in
Note 22 under the relevant headings. Actual rates may vary significantly from estimates because of unanticipated changes
beyond the company’s control.
For 2018, the company used an expected long-term rate of return of 6.75 percent and a discount rate for service costs of
3.7 percent and a discount rate for interest cost of 3.0 percent for U.S. pension plans. The actual return for 2018 was
negative. For the 10 years ended December 31, 2018, actual asset returns averaged 7.9 percent for these plans. Additionally,
with the exception of three years within this 10-year period, actual asset returns for these plans equaled or exceeded
6.75 percent during each year.
Total pension expense for 2018 was $1.1 billion. An increase in the expected long-term return on plan assets or the discount
rate would reduce pension plan expense, and vice versa. As an indication of the sensitivity of pension expense to the long-
term rate of return assumption, a 1 percent increase in this assumption for the company’s primary U.S. pension plan, which
accounted for about 63 percent of companywide pension expense, would have reduced total pension plan expense for 2018
by approximately $83 million. A 1 percent increase in the discount rates for this same plan would have reduced pension
expense for 2018 by approximately $271 million.
The aggregate funded status recognized at December 31, 2018, was a net liability of approximately $3.9 billion. An increase
in the discount rate would decrease the pension obligation, thus changing the funded status of a plan. At December 31, 2018,
the company used a discount rate of 4.2 percent to measure the obligations for the U.S. pension plans. As an indication of the
sensitivity of pension liabilities to the discount rate assumption, a 0.25 percent increase in the discount rate applied to the
company’s primary U.S. pension plan, which accounted for about 62 percent of the companywide pension obligation, would
have reduced the plan obligation by approximately $339 million, and would have decreased the plan’s underfunded status
from approximately $1.8 billion to $1.4 billion.
45
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
45
143262_Financials.indd   45 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 38 ---
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
For the company’s OPEB plans, expense for 2018 was $123 million, and the total liability, all unfunded at the end of 2018,
was $2.4 billion. For the main U.S. OPEB plan, the company used a discount rate for service cost of 3.8 percent and a
discount rate for interest cost of 3.2 percent to measure expense in 2018, and a 4.3 percent discount rate to measure the
benefit obligations at December 31, 2018. Discount rate changes, similar to those used in the pension sensitivity analysis,
resulted in an immaterial impact on 2018 OPEB expense and OPEB liabilities at the end of 2018. For information on the
sensitivity of the health care cost-trend rate, refer to page 83 in Note 22 under the heading “Other Benefit Assumptions.”
Differences between the various assumptions used to determine expense and the funded status of each plan and actual
experience are included in actuarial gain/loss. Refer to page 82 in Note 22 for a description of the method used to amortize
the $4.6 billion of before-tax actuarial losses recorded by the company as of December 31, 2018, and an estimate of the costs
to be recognized in expense during 2019. In addition, information related to company contributions is included on page 85 in
Note 22 under the heading “Cash Contributions and Benefit Payments.”
Contingent Losses Management also makes judgments and estimates in recording liabilities for claims, litigation, tax
matters and environmental remediation. Actual costs can frequently vary from estimates for a variety of reasons. For
example, the costs for settlement of claims and litigation can vary from estimates based on differing interpretations of laws,
opinions on culpability and assessments on the amount of damages. Similarly, liabilities for environmental remediation are
subject to change because of changes in laws, regulations and their interpretation, the determination of additional information
on the extent and nature of site contamination, and improvements in technology.
Under the accounting rules, a liability is generally recorded for these types of contingencies if management determines the
loss to be both probable and estimable. The company generally reports these losses as “Operating expenses” or “Selling,
general and administrative expenses” on the Consolidated Statement of Income. An exception to this handling is for income
tax matters, for which benefits are recognized only if management determines the tax position is “more likely than not” (i.e.,
likelihood greater than 50 percent) to be allowed by the tax jurisdiction. For additional discussion of income tax
uncertainties, refer to Note 23 beginning on page 86. Refer also to the business segment discussions elsewhere in this section
for the effect on earnings from losses associated with certain litigation, environmental remediation and tax matters for the
three years ended December 31, 2018.
An estimate as to the sensitivity to earnings for these periods if other assumptions had been used in recording these liabilities
is not practicable because of the number of contingencies that must be assessed, the number of underlying assumptions and
the wide range of reasonably possible outcomes, both in terms of the probability of loss and the estimates of such loss.
New Accounting Standards
Refer to Note 4 beginning on page 60 for information regarding new accounting standards.
46
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
46
143262_Financials.indd   46 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 39 ---
Quarterly Results
Unaudited
2018 2017
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 4th Q 3rd Q 2nd Q 1st Q 4th Q 3rd Q 2nd Q 1st Q
Revenues and Other Income
Sales and other operating revenues 1 $40,338 $42,105 $40,491 $35,968 $36,381 $33,892 $32,877 $31,524
Income from equity affiliates 1,642 1,555 1,493 1,637 936 1,036 1,316 1,150
Other income 372 327 252 159 299 1,277 287 747
Total Revenues and Other Income 42,352 43,987 42,236 37,764 37,616 36,205 34,480 33,421
Costs and Other Deductions
Purchased crude oil and products 23,920 24,681 24,744 21,233 21,158 18,776 18,325 17,506
Operating expenses2 5,645 4,985 5,213 4,701 5,106 4,845 4,590 4,586
Selling, general and administrative expenses 2 1,080 1,018 1,017 723 1,262 1,111 927 810
Exploration expenses 250 625 177 158 356 239 125 144
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 5,252 5,380 4,498 4,289 4,735 5,109 5,311 4,194
Taxes other than on income 1 901 1,259 1,363 1,344 3,182 3,213 3,065 2,871
Interest and debt expense 190 182 217 159 173 35 48 51
Other components of net periodic benefit costs 2 216 158 102 84 163 219 136 130
Total Costs and Other Deductions 37,454 38,288 37,331 32,691 36,135 33,547 32,527 30,292
Income (Loss) Before Income Tax Expense 4,898 5,699 4,905 5,073 1,481 2,658 1,953 3,129
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) 1,175 1,643 1,483 1,414 (1,637) 672 487 430
Net Income (Loss) $ 3,723 $ 4,056 $ 3,422 $ 3,659 $ 3,118 $ 1,986 $ 1,466 $ 2,699
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (7) 9 13 21 7 34 16 17
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation $ 3,730 $ 4,047 $ 3,409 $ 3,638 $ 3,111 $ 1,952 $ 1,450 $ 2,682
Per Share of Common Stock
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation
– Basic $ 1.97 $ 2.13 $ 1.79 $ 1.92 $ 1.65 $ 1.03 $ 0.77 $ 1.43
– Diluted $ 1.95 $ 2.11 $ 1.78 $ 1.90 $ 1.64 $ 1.03 $ 0.77 $ 1.41
Dividends $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.12 $ 1.08 $ 1.08 $ 1.08 $ 1.08
1 Includes excise, value-added and similar taxes: $— $— $— $— $ 1,874 $ 1,867 $ 1,771 $ 1,677
Beginning in 2018, excises taxes are netted in “Taxes other than on income” in accordance with ASU 2014-09. Refer to Note 25, “Revenue” beginning on page 88.
2 2017 adjusted to conform to ASU 2017-07. Refer to Note 4, “New Accounting Standards” beginning on page 60.
47
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
47
143262_Financials.r3.indd   47 3/19/19   12:35 AM

--- Page 40 ---
Management’s Responsibility for Financial Statements
To the Stockholders of Chevron Corporation
Management of Chevron Corporation is responsible for preparing the accompanying consolidated financial statements and
the related information appearing in this report. The statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America and fairly represent the transactions and financial position of the
company. The financial statements include amounts that are based on management’s best estimates and judgments.
As stated in its report included herein, the independent registered public accounting firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
has audited the company’s consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
The Board of Directors of Chevron has an Audit Committee composed of directors who are not officers or employees of
the company. The Audit Committee meets regularly with members of management, the internal auditors and the
independent registered public accounting firm to review accounting, internal control, auditing and financial reporting
matters. Both the internal auditors and the independent registered public accounting firm have free and direct access to the
Audit Committee without the presence of management.
The company’s management has evaluated, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, the effectiveness of the company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in the Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of December 31, 2018. Based on that evaluation, management concluded that the company’s
disclosure controls are effective in ensuring that information required to be recorded, processed, summarized and
reported, are done within the time periods specified in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
The company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as defined in the Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). The company’s management, including the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on the Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on the results of this evaluation,
the company’s management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31,
2018.
The effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report included herein.
Michael K. Wirth Patricia E. Yarrington Jeanette L. Ourada
Chairman of the Board Vice President Vice President
and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and Comptroller
February 22, 2019
48
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
48
143262_Financials.r3.indd   48 3/19/19   12:35 AM

--- Page 41 ---
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Chevron Corporation:
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Chevron Corporation and its subsidiaries (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive
income, cash flows and equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018 including the related
notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). We also have audited the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of the Company as of December 31, 2018 and, 2017 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated
Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.
Basis for Opinions
The Company’s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions
on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based
on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal
securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material
misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material
misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that
respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial
statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies
and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
San Francisco, California
February 22, 2019
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1935.
49
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
49
143262_Financials.r3.indd   49 3/19/19   12:35 AM

--- Page 42 ---
Consolidated Statement of Income
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Revenues and Other Income
Sales and other operating revenues 1 $ 158,902 $ 134,674 $ 110,215
Income from equity affiliates 6,327 4,438 2,661
Other income 1,110 2,610 1,596
Total Revenues and Other Income 166,339 141,722 114,472
Costs and Other Deductions
Purchased crude oil and products 94,578 75,765 59,321
Operating expenses2 20,544 19,127 19,902
Selling, general and administrative expenses 2 3,838 4,110 4,305
Exploration expenses 1,210 864 1,033
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 19,419 19,349 19,457
Taxes other than on income 1 4,867 12,331 11,668
Interest and debt expense 748 307 201
Other components of net periodic benefit costs 2 560 648 745
Total Costs and Other Deductions 145,764 132,501 116,632
Income (Loss) Before Income Tax Expense 20,575 9,221 (2,160)
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) 5,715 (48) (1,729)
Net Income (Loss) 14,860 9,269 (431)
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 36 74 66
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation $ 14,824 $ 9,195 $ (497)
Per Share of Common Stock
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation
- Basic $ 7.81 $ 4.88 $ (0.27)
- Diluted $ 7.74 $ 4.85 $ (0.27)
1 2017 and 2016 include excise, value-added and similar taxes of $7,189 and $6,905, respectively, collected on behalf of third parties. Beginning in 2018, these taxes are
netted in “Taxes other than on income” in accordance with Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09. Refer to Note 25, “Revenue” beginning on page 88.
2 2017 and 2016 adjusted to conform to ASU 2017-07. Refer to Note 4, “New Accounting Standards” beginning on page 60.
See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
50
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
50
143262_Financials.r3.indd   50 3/19/19   12:35 AM

--- Page 43 ---
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Millions of dollars
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Net Income (Loss) $ 14,860 $ 9,269 $ (431)
Currency translation adjustment
Unrealized net change arising during period (19) 57 (22)
Unrealized holding gain (loss) on securities
Net gain (loss) arising during period (5) (3) 27
Defined benefit plans
Actuarial gain (loss)
Amortization to net income of net actuarial loss and settlements 792 817 918
Actuarial gain (loss) arising during period 85 (571) (315)
Prior service credits (cost)
Amortization to net income of net prior service costs and curtailments (13) (20) 19
Prior service (costs) credits arising during period (26) (1) 345
Defined benefit plans sponsored by equity affiliates - benefit (cost) 23 19 (19)
Income (taxes) benefit on defined benefit plans (230) (44) (505)
Total 631 200 443
Other Comprehensive Gain, Net of Tax 607 254 448
Comprehensive Income 15,467 9,523 17
Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests (36) (74) (66)
Comprehensive Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation $ 15,431 $ 9,449 $ (49)
See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
51
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
51
143262_Financials.r3.indd   51 3/19/19   12:35 AM

--- Page 44 ---
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
At December 31
2018 2017
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents $ 9,342 $ 4,813
Time deposits 950 —
Marketable securities 53 9
Accounts and notes receivable (less allowance: 2018 - $869; 2017 - $490) 15,050 15,353
Inventories:
Crude oil and petroleum products 3,383 3,142
Chemicals 487 476
Materials, supplies and other 1,834 1,967
Total inventories 5,704 5,585
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 2,922 2,800
Total Current Assets 34,021 28,560
Long-term receivables, net 1,942 2,849
Investments and advances 35,546 32,497
Properties, plant and equipment, at cost 340,244 344,485
Less: Accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization 171,037 166,773
Properties, plant and equipment, net 169,207 177,712
Deferred charges and other assets 6,766 7,017
Goodwill 4,518 4,531
Assets held for sale 1,863 640
Total Assets $ 253,863 $ 253,806
Liabilities and Equity
Short-term debt $ 5,726 $ 5,192
Accounts payable 13,953 14,565
Accrued liabilities 4,927 5,267
Federal and other taxes on income 1,628 1,600
Other taxes payable 937 1,113
Total Current Liabilities 27,171 27,737
Long-term debt1 28,733 33,571
Deferred credits and other noncurrent obligations 19,742 21,106
Noncurrent deferred income taxes 15,921 14,652
Noncurrent employee benefit plans 6,654 7,421
Total Liabilities2 $ 98,221 $ 104,487
Preferred stock (authorized 100,000,000 shares; $1.00 par value; none issued) — —
Common stock (authorized 6,000,000,000 shares; $0.75 par value; 2,442,676,580 shares
issued at December 31, 2018 and 2017) 1,832 1,832
Capital in excess of par value 17,112 16,848
Retained earnings 180,987 174,106
Accumulated other comprehensive losses (3,544) (3,589)
Deferred compensation and benefit plan trust (240) (240)
Treasury stock, at cost (2018 - 539,838,890 shares; 2017 - 537,974,695) (41,593) (40,833)
Total Chevron Corporation Stockholders’ Equity 154,554 148,124
Noncontrolling interests 1,088 1,195
Total Equity 155,642 149,319
Total Liabilities and Equity $ 253,863 $ 253,806
1 Includes capital lease obligations of $127 and $94 at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
2 Refer to Note 23, “Other Contingencies and Commitments” beginning on page 86.
See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
52
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
52
143262_Financials.r3.indd   52 3/19/19   12:35 AM

--- Page 45 ---
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Millions of dollars
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Operating Activities
Net Income (Loss) $ 14,860 $ 9,269 $ (431)
Adjustments
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 19,419 19,349 19,457
Dry hole expense 687 198 489
Distributions less than income from equity affiliates 1 (3,580) (2,380) (1,549)
Net before-tax gains on asset retirements and sales (619) (2,195) (1,149)
Net foreign currency effects 123 131 186
Deferred income tax provision 1,050 (3,203) (3,835)
Net decrease (increase) in operating working capital 2 (718) 520 (327)
Decrease (increase) in long-term receivables 418 (368) (131)
Net decrease (increase) in other deferred charges 2 — (254) 178
Cash contributions to employee pension plans (1,035) (980) (870)
Other 13 251 672
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 1,2 30,618 20,338 12,690
Investing Activities
Capital expenditures (13,792) (13,404) (18,109)
Proceeds and deposits related to asset sales and returns of investment 1,2 2,392 5,096 3,476
Net maturities of (investments in) time deposits (950) ——
Net sales (purchases) of marketable securities (51) 4 297
Net repayment (borrowing) of loans by equity affiliates 111 (16) (2,034)
Net Cash Used for Investing Activities 1,2 (12,290) (8,320) (16,370)
Financing Activities
Net borrowings (repayments) of short-term obligations 2,021 (5,142) 2,130
Proceeds from issuances of long-term debt 218 3,991 6,924
Repayments of long-term debt and other financing obligations (6,741) (6,310) (1,584)
Cash dividends - common stock (8,502) (8,132) (8,032)
Distributions to noncontrolling interests (91) (78) (63)
Net sales (purchases) of treasury shares (604) 1,117 650
Net Cash Provided by (Used for) Financing Activities (13,699) (14,554) 25
Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash (91) 65 (53)
Net Change in Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash 4,538 (2,471) (3,708)
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash at January 1 5,943 8,414 12,122
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash at December 31 $ 10,481 $ 5,943 $ 8,414
1 2017 and 2016 adjusted to conform to ASU 2016-15. Refer to Note 3, “Information Relating to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows” beginning on page 59.
2 2017 and 2016 adjusted to conform to ASU 2016-18. Refer to Note 3, “Information Relating to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows” beginning on page 59.
See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
53
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
53
143262_Financials.r3.indd   53 3/19/19   12:35 AM

--- Page 46 ---
Consolidated Statement of Equity
Shares in thousands; amounts in millions of dollars
Common
Stock1
Retained
Earnings
Acc. Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss)
Treasury
Stock
(at cost)
Chevron Corp.
Stockholders’
Equity
Noncontrolling
Interests
Total
Equity
Balance at December 31, 2015 $ 17,922 $ 181,578 $ (4,291) $ (42,493) $ 152,716 $ 1,170 $153,886
Treasury stock transactions 265 — —— 265 — 265
Net income (loss) — (497) —— (497) 66 (431)
Cash dividends — (8,032) — — (8,032) (63) (8,095)
Stock dividends — (3) —— (3) — (3)
Other comprehensive income —— 448 — 448 — 448
Purchases of treasury shares —— — (2) (2) — (2)
Issuances of treasury shares —— — 661 661 — 661
Other changes, net —— —— — (7) (7)
Balance at December 31, 2016 $ 18,187 $ 173,046 $ (3,843) $ (41,834) $ 145,556 $ 1,166 $146,722
Treasury stock transactions 253 — —— 253 — 253
Net income (loss) — 9,195 —— 9,195 74 9,269
Cash dividends — (8,132) — — (8,132) (78) (8,210)
Stock dividends — (3) —— (3) — (3)
Other comprehensive income —— 254 — 254 — 254
Purchases of treasury shares —— — (1) (1) — (1)
Issuances of treasury shares —— — 1,002 1,002 — 1,002
Other changes, net —— —— — 33 33
Balance at December 31, 2017 $ 18,440 $ 174,106 $ (3,589) $ (40,833) $ 148,124 $ 1,195 $149,319
Treasury stock transactions 264 — —— 264 — 264
Net income (loss) — 14,824 — — 14,824 36 14,860
Cash dividends — (8,502) — — (8,502) (91) (8,593)
Stock dividends — (3) —— (3) — (3)
Other comprehensive income —— 607 — 607 — 607
Purchases of treasury shares —— — (1,751) (1,751) — (1,751)
Issuances of treasury shares —— — 991 991 — 991
Other changes, net2 — 562 (562) — — (52) (52)
Balance at December 31, 2018 $ 18,704 $ 180,987 $ (3,544) $ (41,593) $ 154,554 $ 1,088 $155,642
Common Stock Share Activity
Issued3 Treasury Outstanding
Balance at December 31, 2015 2,442,677 (559,863) 1,882,814
Purchases — (20) (20)
Issuances — 8,713 8,713
Balance at December 31, 2016 2,442,677 (551,170) 1,891,507
Purchases — (10) (10)
Issuances — 13,205 13,205
Balance at December 31, 2017 2,442,677 (537,975) 1,904,702
Purchases — (14,912) (14,912)
Issuances — 13,048 13,048
Balance at December 31, 2018 2,442,677 (539,839) 1,902,838
1 Beginning and ending balances for all periods include capital in excess of par, common stock issued at par for $1,832, and $(240) associated with Chevron’s Benefit
Plan Trust. Changes reflect capital in excess of par.
2 In 2018, Chevron reclassified stranded tax effects in “Accumulated other comprehensive losses” to “Retained earnings” in conjunction with the adoption of ASU
2018-02. Refer to Note 2, “Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss” on page 58 and Note 4, “New Accounting Standards” on page 60.
3 Beginning and ending total issued share balances include 14,168 shares associated with Chevron’s Benefit Plan Trust.
See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
54
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
54
143262_Financials.r3.indd   54 3/19/19   12:35 AM

--- Page 47 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Note 1
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
General The company’s Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. These require the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses reported in the financial statements, as well as amounts included in the notes thereto, including
discussion and disclosure of contingent liabilities. Although the company uses its best estimates and judgments, actual results
could differ from these estimates as circumstances change and additional information becomes known.
Subsidiary and Affiliated Companies The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of controlled subsidiary
companies more than 50 percent-owned and any variable-interest entities in which the company is the primary beneficiary.
Undivided interests in oil and gas joint ventures and certain other assets are consolidated on a proportionate basis.
Investments in and advances to affiliates in which the company has a substantial ownership interest of approximately
20 percent to 50 percent, or for which the company exercises significant influence but not control over policy decisions, are
accounted for by the equity method.
Investments in affiliates are assessed for possible impairment when events indicate that the fair value of the investment may
be below the company’s carrying value. When such a condition is deemed to be other than temporary, the carrying value of
the investment is written down to its fair value, and the amount of the write-down is included in net income. In making the
determination as to whether a decline is other than temporary, the company considers such factors as the duration and extent
of the decline, the investee’s financial performance, and the company’s ability and intention to retain its investment for a
period that will be sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in the investment’s market value. The new cost basis of
investments in these equity investees is not changed for subsequent recoveries in fair value.
Differences between the company’s carrying value of an equity investment and its underlying equity in the net assets of the
affiliate are assigned to the extent practicable to specific assets and liabilities based on the company’s analysis of the various
factors giving rise to the difference. When appropriate, the company’s share of the affiliate’s reported earnings is adjusted
quarterly to reflect the difference between these allocated values and the affiliate’s historical book values.
Noncontrolling Interests Ownership interests in the company’s subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent are
presented separately from the parent’s equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The amount of consolidated net income
attributable to the parent and the noncontrolling interests are both presented on the face of the Consolidated Statement of
Income and Consolidated Statement of Equity.
Fair Value Measurements The three levels of the fair value hierarchy of inputs the company uses to measure the fair value
of an asset or a liability are as follows. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are directly or indirectly observable for the
asset or liability. Level 3 inputs are inputs that are not observable in the market.
Derivatives The majority of the company’s activity in derivative commodity instruments is intended to manage the financial
risk posed by physical transactions. For some of this derivative activity, generally limited to large, discrete or infrequently
occurring transactions, the company may elect to apply fair value or cash flow hedge accounting. For other similar derivative
instruments, generally because of the short-term nature of the contracts or their limited use, the company does not apply
hedge accounting, and changes in the fair value of those contracts are reflected in current income. For the company’s
commodity trading activity, gains and losses from derivative instruments are reported in current income. The company may
enter into interest rate swaps from time to time as part of its overall strategy to manage the interest rate risk on its debt.
Interest rate swaps related to a portion of the company’s fixed-rate debt, if any, may be accounted for as fair value hedges.
Interest rate swaps related to floating-rate debt, if any, are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with resulting gains and
losses reflected in income. Where Chevron is a party to master netting arrangements, fair value receivable and payable
amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty are generally offset on the balance sheet.
Short-Term Investments All short-term investments are classified as available for sale and are in highly liquid debt
securities. Those investments that are part of the company’s cash management portfolio and have original maturities of three
months or less are reported as “Cash equivalents.” Bank time deposits with maturities greater than 90 days are reported as
“Time deposits.” The balance of short-term investments is reported as “Marketable securities” and is marked-to-market, with
any unrealized gains or losses included in “Other comprehensive income.”
55
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
55
143262_Financials.indd   55 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 48 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Inventories Crude oil, petroleum products and chemicals inventories are generally stated at cost, using a last-in, first-out
method. In the aggregate, these costs are below market. “Materials, supplies and other” inventories are primarily stated at
cost or net realizable value.
Properties, Plant and Equipment The successful efforts method is used for crude oil and natural gas exploration and
production activities. All costs for development wells, related plant and equipment, proved mineral interests in crude oil and
natural gas properties, and related asset retirement obligation (ARO) assets are capitalized. Costs of exploratory wells are
capitalized pending determination of whether the wells found proved reserves. Costs of wells that are assigned proved reserves
remain capitalized. Costs also are capitalized for exploratory wells that have found crude oil and natural gas reserves even if the
reserves cannot be classified as proved when the drilling is completed, provided the exploratory well has found a sufficient
quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and the company is making sufficient progress assessing the
reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. All other exploratory wells and costs are expensed. Refer to
Note 20, beginning on page 79, for additional discussion of accounting for suspended exploratory well costs.
Long-lived assets to be held and used, including proved crude oil and natural gas properties, are assessed for possible
impairment by comparing their carrying values with their associated undiscounted, future net cash flows. Events that can
trigger assessments for possible impairments include write-downs of proved reserves based on field performance, significant
decreases in the market value of an asset (including changes to the commodity price forecast), significant change in the
extent or manner of use of or a physical change in an asset, and a more-likely-than-not expectation that a long-lived asset or
asset group will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly sooner than the end of its previously estimated useful life.
Impaired assets are written down to their estimated fair values, generally their discounted, future net cash flows. For proved
crude oil and natural gas properties, the company performs impairment reviews on a country, concession, PSC, development
area or field basis, as appropriate. In Downstream, impairment reviews are performed on the basis of a refinery, a plant, a
marketing/lubricants area or distribution area, as appropriate. Impairment amounts are recorded as incremental
“Depreciation, depletion and amortization” expense.
Long-lived assets that are held for sale are evaluated for possible impairment by comparing the carrying value of the asset with
its fair value less the cost to sell. If the net book value exceeds the fair value less cost to sell, the asset is considered impaired
and adjusted to the lower value. Refer to Note 8, beginning on page 63, relating to fair value measurements. The fair value of a
liability for an ARO is recorded as an asset and a liability when there is a legal obligation associated with the retirement of a
long-lived asset and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Refer also to Note 24, on page 88, relating to AROs.
Depreciation and depletion of all capitalized costs of proved crude oil and natural gas producing properties, except mineral
interests, are expensed using the unit-of-production method, generally by individual field, as the proved developed reserves
are produced. Depletion expenses for capitalized costs of proved mineral interests are recognized using the
unit-of-production method by individual field as the related proved reserves are produced. Impairments of capitalized costs
of unproved mineral interests are expensed.
The capitalized costs of all other plant and equipment are depreciated or amortized over their estimated useful lives. In
general, the declining-balance method is used to depreciate plant and equipment in the United States; the straight-line method
is generally used to depreciate international plant and equipment and to amortize all capitalized leased assets.
Gains or losses are not recognized for normal retirements of properties, plant and equipment subject to composite group
amortization or depreciation. Gains or losses from abnormal retirements are recorded as expenses, and from sales as “Other
income.”
Expenditures for maintenance (including those for planned major maintenance projects), repairs and minor renewals to
maintain facilities in operating condition are generally expensed as incurred. Major replacements and renewals are
capitalized.
Goodwill Goodwill resulting from a business combination is not subject to amortization. The company tests such goodwill at
the reporting unit level for impairment annually at December 31, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances
change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying amount.
Environmental Expenditures Environmental expenditures that relate to ongoing operations or to conditions caused by past
operations are expensed. Expenditures that create future benefits or contribute to future revenue generation are capitalized.
Liabilities related to future remediation costs are recorded when environmental assessments or cleanups or both are probable
and the costs can be reasonably estimated. For crude oil, natural gas and mineral-producing properties, a liability for an ARO
56
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
56
143262_Financials.indd   56 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 49 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
is made in accordance with accounting standards for asset retirement and environmental obligations. Refer to Note 24, on
page 88, for a discussion of the company’s AROs.
For federal Superfund sites and analogous sites under state laws, the company records a liability for its designated share of
the probable and estimable costs, and probable amounts for other potentially responsible parties when mandated by the
regulatory agencies because the other parties are not able to pay their respective shares. The gross amount of environmental
liabilities is based on the company’s best estimate of future costs using currently available technology and applying current
regulations and the company’s own internal environmental policies. Future amounts are not discounted. Recoveries or
reimbursements are recorded as assets when receipt is reasonably assured.
Currency Translation The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for substantially all of the company’s consolidated
operations and those of its equity affiliates. For those operations, all gains and losses from currency remeasurement are
included in current period income. The cumulative translation effects for those few entities, both consolidated and affiliated,
using functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are included in “Currency translation adjustment” on the Consolidated
Statement of Equity.
Revenue Recognition The company accounts for each delivery order of crude oil, natural gas, petroleum and chemical
products as a separate performance obligation. Revenue is recognized when the performance obligation is satisfied, which
typically occurs at the point in time when control of the product transfers to the customer. Payment is generally due within 30
days of delivery. The company accounts for delivery transportation as a fulfillment cost, not a separate performance
obligation, and recognizes these costs as an operating expense in the period when revenue for the related commodity is
recognized.
Revenue is measured as the amount the company expects to receive in exchange for transferring commodities to the
customer. The company’s commodity sales are typically based on prevailing market-based prices and may include discounts
and allowances. Until market prices become known under terms of the company’s contracts, the transaction price included in
revenue is based on the company’s estimate of the most likely outcome.
Discounts and allowances are estimated using a combination of historical and recent data trends. When deliveries contain
multiple products, an observable standalone selling price is generally used to measure revenue for each product. The
company includes estimates in the transaction price only to the extent that a significant reversal of revenue is not probable in
subsequent periods.
Excise, value-added and similar taxes assessed by a governmental authority on a revenue-producing transaction between a
seller and a customer are presented on a net basis in “Taxes other than on income” on the Consolidated Statement of Income,
on page 50. Purchases and sales of inventory with the same counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of one another
(including buy/sell arrangements) are combined and recorded on a net basis and reported in “Purchased crude oil and
products” on the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Prior to the adoption of ASC 606 on January 1, 2018, revenues associated with sales of crude oil, natural gas, petroleum and
chemicals products, and all other sources were recorded when title passed to the customer, net of royalties, discounts and
allowances, as applicable. Revenues from natural gas production from properties in which Chevron has an interest with other
producers were generally recognized using the entitlement method. Excise, value-added and similar taxes assessed by a
governmental authority on a revenue-producing transaction between a seller and a customer were presented on a gross basis
on the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation The company issues stock options and other share-based
compensation to certain employees. For equity awards, such as stock options, total compensation cost is based on the grant
date fair value, and for liability awards, such as stock appreciation rights, total compensation cost is based on the settlement
value. The company recognizes stock-based compensation expense for all awards over the service period required to earn the
award, which is the shorter of the vesting period or the time period in which an employee becomes eligible to retain the
award at retirement. The company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards include stock options and stock appreciation
rights, which have graded vesting provisions by which one-third of each award vests on each of the first, second and third
anniversaries of the date of grant. In addition, performance shares granted under the company’s LTIP will vest at the end of
the three-year performance period. For awards granted under the company’s LTIP beginning in 2017, stock options and stock
appreciation rights have graded vesting by which one third of each award vests annually on each January 31 on or after the
first anniversary of the grant date. Standard restricted stock unit awards have cliff vesting by which the total award will vest
on January 31 on or after the fifth anniversary of the grant date, subject to adjustment upon termination pursuant to the
satisfaction of certain criteria. The company amortizes these awards on a straight-line basis.
57
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
57
143262_Financials.indd   57 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 50 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Note 2
Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Losses
The change in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Losses (AOCL) presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the
impact of significant amounts reclassified from AOCL on information presented in the Consolidated Statement of Income for
the year ended December 31, 2018, are reflected in the table below.
Currency
Translation
Adjustments
Unrealized
Holding Gains
(Losses) on
Securities Derivatives
Defined
Benefit Plans Total
Balance at December 31, 2015 $ (140) $ (29) $ (2) $ (4,120) $ (4,291)
Components of Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 1:
Before Reclassifications (22) 27 — (161) (156)
Reclassifications2 — — — 604 604
Net Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (22) 27 — 443 448
Balance at December 31, 2016 $ (162) $ (2) $ (2) $ (3,677) $ (3,843)
Components of Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 1:
Before Reclassifications 57 (3) — (310) (256)
Reclassifications2 — — — 510 510
Net Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 57 (3) — 200 254
Balance at December 31, 2017 $ (105) $ (5) $ (2) $ (3,477) $ (3,589)
Components of Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 1:
Before Reclassifications (19) (5) — 28 4
Reclassifications2 — — — 603 603
Net Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (19) (5) — 631 607
Stranded Tax Reclassification to Retained Earnings 3 — — — (562) (562)
Balance at December 31, 2018 $ (124) $ (10) $ (2) $ (3,408) $ (3,544)
1 All amounts are net of tax.
2 Refer to Note 22 beginning on page 81, for reclassified components totaling $779 that are included in employee benefit costs for the year ended December 31, 2018. Related
income taxes for the same period, totaling $176, are reflected in Income Tax Expense on the Consolidated Statement of Income. All other reclassified amounts were
insignificant.
3 Stranded tax reclassification to retained earnings per ASU 2018-02. Refer to Note 4, “New Accounting Standards” on page 60.
58
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
58
143262_Financials.indd   58 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 51 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Note 3
Information Relating to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Net decrease (increase) in operating working capital was composed of the following:
Decrease (increase) in accounts and notes receivable $ 437 $ (915) $ (2,121)
Decrease (increase) in inventories (424) (267) 603
Decrease (increase) in prepaid expenses and other current assets 1 (149) 173 829
Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and accrued liabilities 1 (494) 998 366
Increase (decrease) in income and other taxes payable (88) 531 (4)
Net decrease (increase) in operating working capital $ (718) $ 520 $ (327)
Net cash provided by operating activities includes the following cash payments:
Interest on debt (net of capitalized interest) $ 736 $ 265 $ 158
Income taxes 4,748 3,132 1,935
Proceeds and deposits related to asset sales and returns of investment consisted of the
following gross amounts:
Proceeds and deposits related to asset sales
1 $ 2,000 $ 4,930 $ 3,154
Returns of investment from equity affiliates 2 392 166 322
Proceeds and deposits related to asset sales and returns of investment $ 2,392 $ 5,096 $ 3,476
Net maturities (investments) of time deposits consisted of the following gross amounts:
Investments in time deposits $ (950) $— $—
Maturities of time deposits — ——
Net maturities of (investments in) time deposits $ (950) $— $—
Net sales (purchases) of marketable securities consisted of the following gross amounts:
Marketable securities purchased $ (51) $ (3) $ (9)
Marketable securities sold — 7 306
Net sales (purchases) of marketable securities $ (51) $ 4 $ 297
Net repayment (borrowing) of loans by equity affiliates:
Borrowing of loans by equity affiliates $— $ (142) $ (2,341)
Repayment of loans by equity affiliates 111 126 307
Net repayment (borrowing) of loans by equity affiliates $ 111 $ (16) $ (2,034)
Net borrowings (repayments) of short-term obligations consisted of the following gross and net amounts:
Proceeds from issuances of short-term obligations $ 2,486 $ 5,051 $ 14,778
Repayments of short-term obligations (4,136) (8,820) (12,558)
Net borrowings (repayments) of short-term obligations with three months or less maturity 3,671 (1,373) (90)
Net borrowings (repayments) of short-term obligations $ 2,021 $ (5,142) $ 2,130
1 2017 and 2016 adjusted to conform to ASU 2016-18.
2 Per ASU 2016-15.
A loan to Tengizchevroil LLP for the development of the Future Growth and Wellhead Pressure Management Project
represents the majority of “Net borrowing of loans by equity affiliates” in 2016.
The “Net sales (purchases) of treasury shares” represents the cost of common shares acquired less the cost of shares issued
for share-based compensation plans. Purchases totaled $1,751, $1 and $2 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The company
purchased 14.9 million shares under its stock repurchase plan for $1,750 in 2018. No shares were repurchased under the plan
in 2017 or 2016.
The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows excludes changes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet that did not affect cash.
“Depreciation, depletion and amortization,” “Dry hole expense” and “Deferred income tax provision” collectively include
approximately $1.1 billion in non-cash reductions to properties, plant and equipment recorded in 2018 relating to
impairments and other non-cash charges.
Refer also to Note 24, on page 88, for a discussion of revisions to the company’s AROs that also did not involve cash
receipts or payments for the three years ending December 31, 2018.
59
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
59
143262_Financials.indd   59 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 52 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
The major components of “Capital expenditures” and the reconciliation of this amount to the reported capital and exploratory
expenditures, including equity affiliates, are presented in the following table:
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Additions to properties, plant and equipment * $ 13,384 $ 13,222 $ 17,742
Additions to investments 65 25 55
Current-year dry hole expenditures 344 157 313
Payments for other liabilities and assets, net (1) — (1)
Capital expenditures 13,792 13,404 18,109
Expensed exploration expenditures 523 666 544
Assets acquired through capital lease obligations and other financing obligations 75 85
Capital and exploratory expenditures, excluding equity affiliates 14,390 14,078 18,658
Company’s share of expenditures by equity affiliates 5,716 4,743 3,770
Capital and exploratory expenditures, including equity affiliates $ 20,106 $ 18,821 $ 22,428
* Excludes non-cash additions of $25 in 2018, $1,183 in 2017 and $56 in 2016.
On January 1, 2018, Chevron adopted Accounting Standards Updates (ASU) 2016-15 and 2016-18, which require
retrospective adjustment of prior periods in the Statement of Cash Flows.
In addition to other requirements, ASU 2016-15 specifies new standards for the classification of distributions from equity
affiliates. In adopting these new standards, Chevron utilized the cumulative earnings approach to evaluate returns on and
returns of investment from equity affiliates. For the year ended 2017 and 2016, a total of $166 and $322, respectively, was
reclassified from “Distributions less than income from equity affiliates” to “Proceeds and deposits related to asset sales and
returns of investment.”
Adoption of ASU 2016-18 requires the inclusion of restricted cash and associated changes in restricted cash in the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The impact of ASU 2016-18 is captured across several line items in the Statement of
Cash Flows, including “Net decrease (increase) in operating working capital,” “Decrease (increase) in other deferred
charges,” and “Proceeds and deposits related to asset sales and returns of investment” with associated net changes captured in
both “Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities” and “Net Cash Used for Investing Activities.” The line item “Net sales
(purchases) of other short-term investments” was removed in conjunction with the adoption of ASU 2016-18.
The table below quantifies the beginning and ending balances of restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet:
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016 2015
Cash and cash equivalents $ 9,342 $ 4,813 $ 6,988 $ 11,022
Restricted cash included in “Prepaid expenses and other current assets” 341 405 488 196
Restricted cash included in “Deferred charges and other assets” 798 725 938 904
Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 10,481 $ 5,943 $ 8,414 $ 12,122
Note 4
New Accounting Standards
Revenue Recognition (Topic 606): Revenue from Contracts with Customers On January 1, 2018, Chevron adopted ASU
2014-09 and its related amendments using the modified retrospective transition method, which did not require the restatement of
prior periods. The impact of the adoption of the standard did not have a material effect on the company’s consolidated financial
statements. For additional information on the company’s revenue, refer to Note 25 beginning on page 88.
Other Income—Gains and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets (Subtopic 610-20) On January 1, 2018,
the company adopted ASU 2017-05, which provides clarification regarding the guidance on accounting for the derecognition
of nonfinancial assets. The adoption of the standard had no impact on the company’s consolidated financial statements.
Compensation—Retirement Benefits (Topic 715) Effective January 1, 2018, Chevron adopted ASU 2017-07 on a
retrospective basis. The standard requires the disaggregation of the service cost component from the other components of net
periodic benefit cost and allows only the service cost component of net benefit cost to be eligible for capitalization. The
effects of retrospective adoption on the Consolidated Statement of Income for 2017 and 2016 were to move $310 and $366
from “Operating expenses” and $338 and $379 from “Selling, general and administrative expenses” to “Other components of
net periodic benefits cost,” respectively.
60
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
60
143262_Financials.indd   60 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 53 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments Effective January 1,
2018, Chevron adopted ASU 2016-15 on a retrospective basis. The standard provides clarification on how certain cash
receipts and cash payments are presented and classified on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The adoption of this
ASU did not have a material impact on the company’s Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. For additional information,
refer to Note 3 beginning on page 59.
Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Restricted Cash Effective January 1, 2018, Chevron adopted ASU 2016-18 on a
retrospective basis. The standard requires an entity to explain the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted
cash and restricted cash equivalents on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and to provide a reconciliation to the
Consolidated Balance Sheet when the cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents are not separately
presented or are presented in more than one line item on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The company’s restricted cash
balances are now included in the beginning and ending balances on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. For
additional information, refer to Note 3 beginning on page 59.
Income Statement—Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income In fourth quarter 2018, the company elected to early adopt ASU 2018-02,
which permits the reclassification of stranded tax effects in accumulated other comprehensive income as a result of U.S. tax
reform. Accordingly, Chevron reclassified $562 from “Accumulated other comprehensive losses” to “Retained earnings”
associated with the reduction of the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent. In accordance with its accounting
policy, the company releases stranded income tax effects from accumulated other comprehensive income in the period the
underlying activity ceases to exist. ASU 2018-02 allowed for the reclassification of stranded tax effects as a result of the
change in tax rates due to U.S. tax reform to be recorded upon adoption of the ASU, rather than at the actual date that the
underlying activity ceases to exist. For additional detail, refer to Note 2 beginning on page 58.
Leases (Topic 842) In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2016-02, which
became effective for the company January 1, 2019. The standard requires that lessees present right-of-use assets and lease
liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The company plans to elect the short-term lease exception provided for in the
standard and therefore will only recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for leases with a term greater than one year.
The company further intends to elect the option to apply the transition provisions of the new standard at the adoption date
instead of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. The company plans to elect the package of
practical expedients to not re-evaluate existing lease contracts or lease classifications and therefore will not make changes to
those leases already recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet under ASC 840 until the leases are fully amortized,
amended, or modified. In addition, the company will not reassess initial direct costs for any existing leases. The company
intends to apply the land easement practical expedient. Chevron plans to elect the practical expedient to not separate
non-lease components from lease components for most asset classes except for certain asset classes that have significant
non-lease (i.e., service) components in addition to the lease component. The company will reclassify some contracts,
currently not classified as leases, as operating leases under the new standard.
The company completed accounting policy and disclosure updates and system implementation necessary to meet the
standard’s requirements. The company does not expect the adoption of the ASU to have a material impact on finance leases,
which are currently referred to as capital leases. The company estimates that the operating lease right-of-use assets and lease
liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet are approximately $4 billion, as of January 1, 2019. The company expects the
implementation of the standard will have a minimal impact on the Consolidated Statement of Income and Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows.
Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326) In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, which becomes effective
for the company beginning January 1, 2020. The standard requires companies to use forward-looking information to
calculate credit loss estimates. The company is evaluating the effect of the standard on the company’s consolidated financial
statements.
61
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
61
143262_Financials.indd   61 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 54 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Note 5
Lease Commitments
Certain noncancelable leases are classified as capital leases, and the leased assets are included as part of “Properties, plant
and equipment, at cost” on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Such leasing arrangements involve crude oil production and
processing equipment, vessels, office buildings, and other facilities. Other leases are classified as operating leases and are not
capitalized. The payments on operating leases are recorded as expense. Details of the capitalized leased assets are below:
At December 31
2018 2017
Upstream $ 719 $ 678
Downstream 99 99
All Other — —
Total 818 777
Less: Accumulated amortization 617 515
Net capitalized leased assets $ 201 $ 262
Rental expenses incurred for operating leases during 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows:
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Minimum rentals $ 820 $ 726 $ 943
Contingent rentals 1 12
Total 821 727 945
Less: Sublease rental income 5 67
Net rental expense $ 816 $ 721 $ 938
Contingent rentals are based on factors other than the passage of time, principally sales volumes at leased service stations.
Certain leases include escalation clauses for adjusting rentals to reflect changes in price indices, renewal options, and options
to purchase the leased property during or at the end of the initial or renewal lease period for the fair market value or other
specified amount at that time.
At December 31, 2018, the estimated future minimum lease payments (net of noncancelable sublease rentals) under
operating and capital leases, which at inception had a noncancelable term of more than one year, were as follows:
At December 31
Operating Leases Capital Leases *
Year 2019 $ 540 $ 30
2020 492 22
2021 378 17
2022 242 16
2023 166 16
Thereafter 341 132
Total $ 2,159 $ 233
Less: Amounts representing interest and executory costs $ (88)
Net present values 145
Less: Capital lease obligations included in short-term debt (18)
Long-term capital lease obligations $ 127
* Excluded from the table is an executed but not-yet-commenced capital lease with payments of $14, $15, $22, $21, $21, and $219 for 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and
thereafter, respectively.
62
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
62
143262_Financials.indd   62 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 55 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Note 6
Summarized Financial Data – Chevron U.S.A. Inc.
Chevron U.S.A. Inc. (CUSA) is a major subsidiary of Chevron Corporation. CUSA and its subsidiaries manage and operate
most of Chevron’s U.S. businesses. Assets include those related to the exploration and production of crude oil, natural gas
and natural gas liquids and those associated with the refining, marketing, supply and distribution of products derived from
petroleum, excluding most of the regulated pipeline operations of Chevron. CUSA also holds the company’s investment in
the Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC joint venture, which is accounted for using the equity method. The
summarized financial information for CUSA and its consolidated subsidiaries is as follows:
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Sales and other operating revenues $ 125,076 $ 104,054 $ 83,715
Total costs and other deductions 121,351 103,904 87,429
Net income (loss) attributable to CUSA 4,334 4,842 (1,177)
At December 31
2018 2017
Current assets $ 12,819 $ 12,163
Other assets 55,814 54,994
Current liabilities 16,376 17,379
Other liabilities 12,906 12,541
Total CUSA net equity $ 39,351 $ 37,237
Memo: Total debt $ 3,049 $ 3,056
Note 7
Summarized Financial Data – Tengizchevroil LLP
Chevron has a 50 percent equity ownership interest in Tengizchevroil LLP (TCO). Refer to Note 14, beginning on page 69,
for a discussion of TCO operations. Summarized financial information for 100 percent of TCO is presented in the table below:
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Sales and other operating revenues $ 17,260 $ 13,363 $ 10,460
Costs and other deductions 7,446 6,507 6,822
Net income attributable to TCO 6,908 4,841 2,563
At December 31
2018 2017
Current assets $ 2,374 $ 4,239
Other assets 34,727 26,411
Current liabilities 3,069 2,517
Other liabilities 6,357 6,266
Total TCO net equity $ 27,675 $ 21,867
Note 8
Fair Value Measurements
The tables on the next page show the fair value hierarchy for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring and
nonrecurring basis at December 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017.
Marketable Securities The company calculates fair value for its marketable securities based on quoted market prices for identical
assets. The fair values reflect the cash that would have been received if the instruments were sold at December 31, 2018.
Derivatives The company records its derivative instruments – other than any commodity derivative contracts that are
designated as normal purchase and normal sale – on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value, with the offsetting amount
to the Consolidated Statement of Income. Derivatives classified as Level 1 include futures, swaps and options contracts
traded in active markets such as the New York Mercantile Exchange. Derivatives classified as Level 2 include swaps, options
and forward contracts principally with financial institutions and other oil and gas companies, the fair values of which are
63
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
63
143262_Financials.indd   63 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 56 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
obtained from third-party broker quotes, industry pricing services and exchanges. The company obtains multiple sources of
pricing information for the Level 2 instruments. Since this pricing information is generated from observable market data, it
has historically been very consistent. The company does not materially adjust this information.
Properties, Plant and Equipment The company did not have any individually material impairments in 2018 or 2017.
Investments and Advances The company did not have any individually material impairments of investments and advances
in 2018 or 2017.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
At December 31, 2018 At December 31, 2017
Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Marketable securities $5 3 $5 3 $— $— $9 $9 $— $—
Derivatives 283 185 98 — 22 — 22 —
Total assets at fair value $ 336 $ 238 $ 98 $ — $ 3 1$ 9$ 2 2$ —
Derivatives 1 2—1 2— 124 78 46 —
Total liabilities at fair value $ 12 $ — $ 12 $ — $ 124 $ 78 $ 46 $ —
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
At December 31 At December 31
Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Before-Tax Loss
Year 2018 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Before-Tax Loss
Year 2017
Properties, plant and equipment, net (held
and used) $ 102 $ — $ 62 $ 40 $ 97 $ 603 $ — $ — $ 603 $ 658
Properties, plant and equipment, net (held
for sale) 1,694 — 1,273 421 638 1,378 — 1,378 — 363
Investments and advances 81 — 20 61 69 28 — 1 27 26
Total nonrecurring assets at fair value $ 1,877 $ — $ 1,355 $ 522 $ 804 $ 2,009 $ — $ 1,379 $ 630 $ 1,047
Assets and Liabilities Not Required to Be Measured at Fair Value The company holds cash equivalents and time deposits
in U.S. and non-U.S. portfolios. The instruments classified as cash equivalents are primarily bank time deposits with
maturities of 90 days or less and money market funds. “Cash and cash equivalents” had carrying/fair values of $9,342 and
$4,813 at December 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017, respectively. The instruments held in “Time deposits” are bank time
deposits with maturities greater than 90 days and had carrying/fair values of $950 and zero at December 31, 2018, and
December 31, 2017, respectively. The fair values of cash, cash equivalents and bank time deposits are classified as Level 1
and reflect the cash that would have been received if the instruments were settled at December 31, 2018.
“Cash and cash equivalents” do not include investments with a carrying/fair value of $1,139 and $1,130 at December 31,
2018, and December 31, 2017, respectively. At December 31, 2018, these investments are classified as Level 1 and include
restricted funds related to certain upstream abandonment activities, tax payments and a financing program, which are
reported in “Deferred charges and other assets” on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Long-term debt, excluding capital lease
obligations, of $18,706 and $23,477 at December 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017, respectively, had estimated fair values
of $18,729 and $23,943, respectively. Long-term debt primarily includes corporate issued bonds. The fair value of corporate
bonds is $17,858 and classified as Level 1. The fair value of other long-term debt is $871 and classified as Level 2.
The carrying values of short-term financial assets and liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet approximate their fair
values. Fair value remeasurements of other financial instruments at December 31, 2018 and 2017, were not material.
Note 9
Financial and Derivative Instruments
Derivative Commodity Instruments The company’s derivative commodity instruments principally include crude oil, natural
gas and refined product futures, swaps, options, and forward contracts. None of the company’s derivative instruments is
designated as a hedging instrument, although certain of the company’s affiliates make such designation. The company’s
derivatives are not material to the company’s financial position, results of operations or liquidity. The company believes it
has no material market or credit risks to its operations, financial position or liquidity as a result of its commodity derivative
activities.
64
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
64
143262_Financials.indd   64 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 57 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
The company uses derivative commodity instruments traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange and on electronic
platforms of the Inter-Continental Exchange and Chicago Mercantile Exchange. In addition, the company enters into swap
contracts and option contracts principally with major financial institutions and other oil and gas companies in the
“over-the-counter” markets, which are governed by International Swaps and Derivatives Association agreements and other
master netting arrangements. Depending on the nature of the derivative transactions, bilateral collateral arrangements may
also be required.
Derivative instruments measured at fair value at December 31, 2018, December 31, 2017, and December 31, 2016, and their
classification on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Income are below:
Consolidated Balance Sheet: Fair Value of Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments
At December 31
Type of Contract Balance Sheet Classification 2018 2017
Commodity Accounts and notes receivable, net $ 279 $ 22
Commodity Long-term receivables, net 4 —
Total assets at fair value $ 283 $ 22
Commodity Accounts payable $ 12 $ 122
Commodity Deferred credits and other noncurrent obligations — 2
Total liabilities at fair value $ 12 $ 124
Consolidated Statement of Income: The Effect of Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments
Type of Derivative Statement of
Gain/(Loss)
Year ended December 31
Contract Income Classification 2018 2017 2016
Commodity Sales and other operating revenues $ 135 $ (105) $ (269)
Commodity Purchased crude oil and products (33) (9) (31)
Commodity Other income 3 (2) —
$ 105 $ (116) $ (300)
The table below represents gross and net derivative assets and liabilities subject to netting agreements on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Consolidated Balance Sheet: The Effect of Netting Derivative Assets and Liabilities
At December 31, 2018
Gross Amounts
Recognized
Gross Amounts
Offset
Net Amounts
Presented
Gross Amounts
Not Offset Net Amounts
Derivative Assets $ 3,685 $ 3,402 $ 283 $ — $ 283
Derivative Liabilities $ 3,414 $ 3,402 $ 12 $ — $ 12
At December 31, 2017
Derivative Assets $ 1,169 $ 1,147 $ 22 $ — $ 22
Derivative Liabilities $ 1,271 $ 1,147 $ 124 $ — $ 124
Derivative assets and liabilities are classified on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as accounts and notes receivable, long-term
receivables, accounts payable, and deferred credits and other noncurrent obligations. Amounts not offset on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet represent positions that do not meet all the conditions for “a right of offset.”
Concentrations of Credit Risk The company’s financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist
primarily of its cash equivalents, time deposits, marketable securities, derivative financial instruments and trade receivables.
The company’s short-term investments are placed with a wide array of financial institutions with high credit ratings.
Company investment policies limit the company’s exposure both to credit risk and to concentrations of credit risk. Similar
policies on diversification and creditworthiness are applied to the company’s counterparties in derivative instruments.
The trade receivable balances, reflecting the company’s diversified sources of revenue, are dispersed among the company’s
broad customer base worldwide. As a result, the company believes concentrations of credit risk are limited. The company
routinely assesses the financial strength of its customers. When the financial strength of a customer is not considered
sufficient, alternative risk mitigation measures may be deployed, including requiring pre-payments, letters of credit or other
acceptable collateral instruments to support sales to customers.
65
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
65
143262_Financials.indd   65 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 58 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Note 10
Assets Held for Sale
At December 31, 2018, the company classified $1,863 of net properties, plant and equipment as “Assets held for sale” on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. These assets are primarily associated with upstream operations that are anticipated to be sold in
the next 12 months. The revenues and earnings contributions of these assets in 2018 were not material.
Note 11
Equity
Retained earnings at December 31, 2018 and 2017, included approximately $22,362 and $18,473, respectively, for the
company’s share of undistributed earnings of equity affiliates.
At December 31, 2018, about 78 million shares of Chevron’s common stock remained available for issuance from the
260 million shares that were reserved for issuance under the Chevron Long-Term Incentive Plan. In addition, 748,211 shares
remain available for issuance from the 1,600,000 shares of the company’s common stock that were reserved for awards under
the Chevron Corporation Non-Employee Directors’ Equity Compensation and Deferral Plan.
Note 12
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is based upon “Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation” (“earnings”) and
includes the effects of deferrals of salary and other compensation awards that are invested in Chevron stock units by certain
officers and employees of the company. Diluted EPS includes the effects of these items as well as the dilutive effects of
outstanding stock options awarded under the company’s stock option programs (refer to Note 21, “Stock Options and Other
Share-Based Compensation,” beginning on page 80). The table below sets forth the computation of basic and diluted EPS:
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Basic EPS Calculation
Earnings available to common stockholders - Basic 1 $ 14,824 $ 9,195 $ (497)
Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding 2 1,897 1,882 1,872
Add: Deferred awards held as stock units 1 11
Total weighted-average number of common shares outstanding 1,898 1,883 1,873
Earnings per share of common stock - Basic $ 7.81 $ 4.88 $ (0.27)
Diluted EPS Calculation
Earnings available to common stockholders - Diluted
1 $ 14,824 $ 9,195 $ (497)
Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding 2 1,897 1,882 1,872
Add: Deferred awards held as stock units 1 11
Add: Dilutive effect of employee stock-based awards 16 15 —
Total weighted-average number of common shares outstanding 1,914 1,898 1,873
Earnings per share of common stock - Diluted $ 7.74 $ 4.85 $ (0.27)
1 There was no effect of dividend equivalents paid on stock units or dilutive impact of employee stock-based awards on earnings.
2 Millions of shares; 10 million shares of employee-based awards were not included in the 2016 diluted EPS calculation as the result would be anti-dilutive.
Note 13
Operating Segments and Geographic Data
Although each subsidiary of Chevron is responsible for its own affairs, Chevron Corporation manages its investments in
these subsidiaries and their affiliates. The investments are grouped into two business segments, Upstream and Downstream,
representing the company’s “reportable segments” and “operating segments.” Upstream operations consist primarily of
exploring for, developing and producing crude oil and natural gas; liquefaction, transportation and regasification associated
with liquefied natural gas (LNG); transporting crude oil by major international oil export pipelines; processing, transporting,
storage and marketing of natural gas; and a gas-to-liquids plant. Downstream operations consist primarily of refining of
crude oil into petroleum products; marketing of crude oil and refined products; transporting of crude oil and refined products
by pipeline, marine vessel, motor equipment and rail car; and manufacturing and marketing of commodity petrochemicals,
plastics for industrial uses, and fuel and lubricant additives. All Other activities of the company include worldwide cash
management and debt financing activities, corporate administrative functions, insurance operations, real estate activities, and
technology companies.
66
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
66
143262_Financials.indd   66 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 59 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
The company’s segments are managed by “segment managers” who report to the “chief operating decision maker” (CODM).
The segments represent components of the company that engage in activities (a) from which revenues are earned and
expenses are incurred; (b) whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the CODM, which makes decisions about
resources to be allocated to the segments and assesses their performance; and (c) for which discrete financial information is
available.
The company’s primary country of operation is the United States of America, its country of domicile. Other components of
the company’s operations are reported as “International” (outside the United States).
Segment Earnings The company evaluates the performance of its operating segments on an after-tax basis, without
considering the effects of debt financing interest expense or investment interest income, both of which are managed by the
company on a worldwide basis. Corporate administrative costs are not allocated to the operating segments. However,
operating segments are billed for the direct use of corporate services. Nonbillable costs remain at the corporate level in “All
Other.” Earnings by major operating area are presented in the following table:
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Upstream
United States $ 3,278 $ 3,640 $ (2,054)
International 10,038 4,510 (483)
Total Upstream 13,316 8,150 (2,537)
Downstream
United States 2,103 2,938 1,307
International 1,695 2,276 2,128
Total Downstream 3,798 5,214 3,435
Total Segment Earnings 17,114 13,364 898
All Other
Interest expense (713) (264) (168)
Interest income 137 60 58
Other (1,714) (3,965) (1,285)
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation $ 14,824 $ 9,195 $ (497)
Segment Assets Segment assets do not include intercompany investments or receivables. Assets at year-end 2018 and 2017
are as follows:
At December 31
2018 2017
Upstream
United States $ 42,594 $ 40,770
International 153,861 159,612
Goodwill 4,518 4,531
Total Upstream 200,973 204,913
Downstream
United States 23,866 23,202
International 15,622 17,434
Total Downstream 39,488 40,636
Total Segment Assets 240,461 245,549
All Other
United States 5,100 4,938
International 8,302 3,319
Total All Other 13,402 8,257
Total Assets – United States 71,560 68,910
Total Assets – International 177,785 180,365
Goodwill 4,518 4,531
Total Assets $ 253,863 $ 253,806
Segment Sales and Other Operating Revenues Operating segment sales and other operating revenues, including internal
transfers, for the years 2018, 2017 and 2016, are presented in the table on the next page. Products are transferred between
operating segments at internal product values that approximate market prices.
Revenues for the upstream segment are derived primarily from the production and sale of crude oil and natural gas, as well as
the sale of third-party production of natural gas. Revenues for the downstream segment are derived from the refining and
67
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
67
143262_Financials.indd   67 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 60 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
marketing of petroleum products such as gasoline, jet fuel, gas oils, lubricants, residual fuel oils and other products derived
from crude oil. This segment also generates revenues from the manufacture and sale of fuel and lubricant additives and the
transportation and trading of refined products and crude oil. “All Other” activities include revenues from insurance
operations, real estate activities and technology companies.
Year ended December 31 1
2018 2017 2016
Upstream
United States $ 8,926 $ 3,901 $ 3,148
Intersegment 13,965 9,341 7,217
Total United States 22,891 13,242 10,365
International 24,143 17,209 13,262
Intersegment 13,679 11,471 9,518
Total International 37,822 28,680 22,780
Total Upstream 60,713 41,922 33,145
Downstream
United States 56,634 48,728 40,366
Excise and similar taxes 2 — 4,398 4,335
Intersegment 2,742 14 16
Total United States 59,376 53,140 44,717
International 68,963 57,438 46,388
Excise and similar taxes 2 — 2,791 2,570
Intersegment 1,132 1,166 1,068
Total International 70,095 61,395 50,026
Total Downstream 129,471 114,535 94,743
All Other
United States 236 208 145
Intersegment 786 814 960
Total United States 1,022 1,022 1,105
International — 11
Intersegment 22 25 36
Total International 22 26 37
Total All Other 1,044 1,048 1,142
Segment Sales and Other Operating Revenues
United States 83,289 67,404 56,187
International 107,939 90,101 72,843
Total Segment Sales and Other Operating Revenues 191,228 157,505 129,030
Elimination of intersegment sales (32,326) (22,831) (18,815)
Total Sales and Other Operating Revenues $ 158,902 $ 134,674 $ 110,215
1 Other than the United States, no other country accounted for 10 percent or more of the company’s Sales and Other Operating Revenues.
2 Netted in “Taxes other than on income” beginning in 2018 in accordance with ASU 2014-09. Refer to Note 25 beginning on page 88.
Segment Income Taxes Segment income tax expense for the years 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Upstream
United States $ 811 $ (3,538) $ (1,172)
International 4,687 2,249 166
Total Upstream 5,498 (1,289) (1,006)
Downstream
United States 534 (419) 503
International 328 650 484
Total Downstream 862 231 987
All Other (645) 1,010 (1,710)
Total Income Tax Expense (Benefit) $ 5,715 $ (48) $ (1,729)
Other Segment Information Additional information for the segmentation of major equity affiliates is contained in Note 14,
on page 69. Information related to properties, plant and equipment by segment is contained in Note 17, on page 77.
68
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
68
143262_Financials.indd   68 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 61 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Note 14
Investments and Advances
Equity in earnings, together with investments in and advances to companies accounted for using the equity method and other
investments accounted for at or below cost, is shown in the following table. For certain equity affiliates, Chevron pays its
share of some income taxes directly. For such affiliates, the equity in earnings does not include these taxes, which are
reported on the Consolidated Statement of Income as “Income tax expense.”
Investments and Advances
At December 31
Equity in Earnings
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2018 2017 2016
Upstream
Tengizchevroil $ 16,017 $ 13,121 $ 3,614 $ 2,581 $ 1,380
Petropiar 1,361 1,152 317 175 326
Petroboscan 1,315 1,080 357 154 (133)
Caspian Pipeline Consortium 1,022 1,151 170 155 145
Angola LNG Limited 2,496 2,625 172 27 (282)
Other 1,541 1,714 19 104 (193)
Total Upstream 23,752 20,843 4,649 3,196 1,243
Downstream
Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC 6,218 6,200 1,034 723 840
GS Caltex Corporation 3,924 3,826 373 290 373
Other 1,383 1,251 273 230 209
Total Downstream 11,525 11,277 1,680 1,243 1,422
All Other
Other (16) (15) (2) (1) (4)
Total equity method 35,261 $ 32,105 $ 6,327 $ 4,438 $ 2,661
Other non-equity method investments 285 392
Total investments and advances $ 35,546 $ 32,497
Total United States $ 7,500 $ 7,582 $ 1,033 $ 788 $ 802
Total International $ 28,046 $ 24,915 $ 5,294 $ 3,650 $ 1,859
Descriptions of major affiliates, including significant differences between the company’s carrying value of its investments
and its underlying equity in the net assets of the affiliates, are as follows:
Tengizchevroil Chevron has a 50 percent equity ownership interest in Tengizchevroil (TCO), which operates the Tengiz and
Korolev crude oil fields in Kazakhstan. At December 31, 2018, the company’s carrying value of its investment in TCO was
about $120 higher than the amount of underlying equity in TCO’s net assets. This difference results from Chevron acquiring
a portion of its interest in TCO at a value greater than the underlying book value for that portion of TCO’s net assets.
Included in the investment is a loan to TCO to fund the development of the Future Growth and Wellhead Pressure
Management Project with a balance of $2,060, including accrued interest. See Note 7, on page 63, for summarized financial
information for 100 percent of TCO.
Petropiar Chevron has a 30 percent interest in Petropiar, a joint stock company which operates the heavy oil Huyapari Field
and upgrading project in Venezuela’s Orinoco Belt. At December 31, 2018, the company’s carrying value of its investment
in Petropiar was approximately $136 less than the amount of underlying equity in Petropiar’s net assets. The difference
represents the excess of Chevron’s underlying equity in Petropiar’s net assets over the net book value of the assets
contributed to the venture.
Petroboscan Chevron has a 39.2 percent interest in Petroboscan, a joint stock company which operates the Boscan Field in
Venezuela. At December 31, 2018, the company’s carrying value of its investment in Petroboscan was approximately $97
higher than the amount of underlying equity in Petroboscan’s net assets. The difference reflects the excess of the net book
value of the assets contributed by Chevron over its underlying equity in Petroboscan’s net assets. The company also has an
outstanding long-term loan to Petroboscan of $626 at year-end 2018.
Caspian Pipeline Consortium Chevron has a 15 percent interest in the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, a variable interest
entity, which provides the critical export route for crude oil from both TCO and Karachaganak. The company has
investments and advances totaling $1,022, which includes long-term loans of $468 at year-end 2018. The loans were
provided to fund 30 percent of the initial pipeline construction. The company is not the primary beneficiary of the consortium
because it does not direct activities of the consortium and only receives its proportionate share of the financial returns.
69
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
69
143262_Financials.indd   69 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 62 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Angola LNG Limited Chevron has a 36.4 percent interest in Angola LNG Limited, which processes and liquefies natural gas
produced in Angola for delivery to international markets.
Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC Chevron owns 50 percent of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC. The
other half is owned by Phillips 66.
GS Caltex Corporation Chevron owns 50 percent of GS Caltex Corporation, a joint venture with GS Energy. The joint
venture imports, refines and markets petroleum products, petrochemicals and lubricants, predominantly in South Korea.
Other Information “Sales and other operating revenues” on the Consolidated Statement of Income includes $10,378, $8,165
and $5,786 with affiliated companies for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. “Purchased crude oil and products” includes
$6,598, $4,800 and $3,468 with affiliated companies for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
“Accounts and notes receivable” on the Consolidated Balance Sheet includes $884 and $1,141 due from affiliated companies
at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. “Accounts payable” includes $631 and $498 due to affiliated companies at
December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The following table provides summarized financial information on a 100 percent basis for all equity affiliates as well as
Chevron’s total share, which includes Chevron’s net loans to affiliates of $3,402, $3,853 and $3,535 at December 31, 2018,
2017 and 2016, respectively.
Affiliates Chevron Share
Year ended December 31 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Total revenues $ 84,469 $ 70,744 $ 59,253 $ 40,679 $ 33,460 $ 27,787
Income before income tax expense 16,693 13,487 6,587 6,755 5,712 3,670
Net income attributable to affiliates 13,321 10,751 5,127 6,384 4,468 2,876
At December 31
Current assets $ 32,657 $ 33,883 $ 33,406 $ 12,813 $ 13,568 $ 13,743
Noncurrent assets 87,614 82,261 75,258 36,369 32,643 28,854
Current liabilities 26,006 26,873 24,793 9,843 10,201 8,996
Noncurrent liabilities 20,000 21,447 22,671 4,446 4,224 4,255
Total affiliates’ net equity $ 74,265 $ 67,824 $ 61,200 $ 34,893 $ 31,786 $ 29,346
Note 15
Litigation
MTBE Chevron and many other companies in the petroleum industry have used methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) as a
gasoline additive. Chevron is a party to seven pending lawsuits and claims, the majority of which involve numerous other
petroleum marketers and refiners. Resolution of these lawsuits and claims may ultimately require the company to correct or
ameliorate the alleged effects on the environment of prior release of MTBE by the company or other parties. Additional
lawsuits and claims related to the use of MTBE, including personal-injury claims, may be filed in the future. The company’s
ultimate exposure related to pending lawsuits and claims is not determinable. The company no longer uses MTBE in the
manufacture of gasoline in the United States.
Ecuador
Background Chevron is a defendant in a civil lawsuit initiated in the Superior Court of Nueva Loja in Lago Agrio, Ecuador
(“the provincial court”), in May 2003 by plaintiffs who claim to be representatives of certain residents of an area where an oil
production consortium formerly had operations. The lawsuit alleges damage to the environment from the oil exploration and
production operations and seeks unspecified damages to fund environmental remediation and restoration of the alleged
environmental harm, plus a health monitoring program. Until 1992, Texaco Petroleum Company (Texpet), a subsidiary of
Texaco Inc., was a minority member of this consortium with Petroecuador, the Ecuadorian state-owned oil company, as the
majority partner; since 1990, the operations have been conducted solely by Petroecuador. At the conclusion of the
consortium and following an independent third-party environmental audit of the concession area, Texpet entered into a
formal agreement with the Republic of Ecuador and Petroecuador for Texpet to remediate specific sites assigned by the
government in proportion to Texpet’s ownership share of the consortium. Pursuant to that agreement, Texpet conducted a
three-year remediation program at a cost of $40. After certifying that the sites were properly remediated, the government
granted Texpet and all related corporate entities a full release from any and all environmental liability arising from the
consortium operations.
Based on the history described above, Chevron believes that this lawsuit lacks legal or factual merit. As to matters of law, the
company believes first, that the court lacks jurisdiction over Chevron; second, that the law under which plaintiffs bring the
70
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
70
143262_Financials.indd   70 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 63 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
action, enacted in 1999, cannot be applied retroactively; third, that the claims are barred by the statute of limitations in
Ecuador; and, fourth, that the lawsuit is also barred by the releases from liability previously given to Texpet by the Republic
of Ecuador and Petroecuador and by the pertinent provincial and municipal governments. With regard to the facts, the
company believes that the evidence confirms that Texpet’s remediation was properly conducted and that the remaining
environmental damage reflects Petroecuador’s failure to timely fulfill its legal obligations and Petroecuador’s further conduct
since assuming full control over the operations.
Lago Agrio Judgment On February 14, 2011, the provincial court rendered a judgment against Chevron. The court rejected
Chevron’s defenses to the extent the court addressed them in its opinion. The judgment assessed approximately $8,600 in
damages and approximately $900 as an award for the plaintiffs’ representatives. It also assessed an additional amount of
approximately $8,600 in punitive damages unless the company issued a public apology within 15 days of the judgment,
which Chevron did not do. On February 17, 2011, the plaintiffs appealed the judgment, seeking increased damages, and on
March 11, 2011, Chevron appealed the judgment seeking to have the judgment nullified. On January 3, 2012, an appellate
panel in the provincial court affirmed the February 14, 2011 decision and ordered that Chevron pay additional attorneys’ fees
in the amount of “0.10% of the values that are derived from the decisional act of this judgment.” The plaintiffs filed a
petition to clarify and amplify the appellate decision on January 6, 2012, and the provincial court issued a ruling in response
on January 13, 2012, purporting to clarify and amplify its January 3, 2012 ruling, which included clarification that the
deadline for the company to issue a public apology to avoid the additional amount of approximately $8,600 in punitive
damages was within 15 days of the clarification ruling, or February 3, 2012. Chevron did not issue an apology because doing
so might be mischaracterized as an admission of liability and would be contrary to facts and evidence submitted at trial. On
January 20, 2012, Chevron appealed (called a petition for cassation) the appellate panel’s decision to Ecuador’s National
Court of Justice (the National Court). On February 17, 2012, the appellate panel of the provincial court admitted Chevron’s
cassation appeal in a procedural step necessary for the National Court to hear the appeal. On March 29, 2012, the matter was
transferred from the provincial court to the National Court, and on November 22, 2012, the National Court agreed to hear
Chevron’s cassation appeal. On August 3, 2012, the provincial court approved a court-appointed liquidator’s report on
damages that calculated the total judgment in the case to be $19,100. On November 13, 2013, the National Court ratified the
judgment but nullified the $8,600 punitive damage assessment, resulting in a judgment of $9,500. On December 23, 2013,
Chevron appealed the decision to the Ecuador Constitutional Court, Ecuador’s highest court. The reporting justice of the
Constitutional Court heard oral arguments on the appeal on July 16, 2015. On July 10, 2018, Ecuador’s Constitutional Court
released a decision rejecting Chevron’s appeal, which sought to nullify the National Court’s judgment against Chevron. No
further appeals are available in Ecuador.
Lago Agrio Plaintiffs’ Enforcement Actions Chevron has no assets in Ecuador and the Lago Agrio plaintiffs’ lawyers have
stated in press releases and through other media that they will seek to enforce the Ecuadorian judgment in various countries
and otherwise disrupt Chevron’s operations. On May 30, 2012, the Lago Agrio plaintiffs filed an action against Chevron
Corporation, Chevron Canada Limited, and Chevron Canada Finance Limited in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice in
Ontario, Canada, seeking to recognize and enforce the Ecuadorian judgment. On May 1, 2013, the Ontario Superior Court of
Justice held that the Court has jurisdiction over Chevron and Chevron Canada Limited for purposes of the action, but stayed
the action due to the absence of evidence that Chevron Corporation has assets in Ontario. The Lago Agrio plaintiffs appealed
that decision and on December 17, 2013, the Court of Appeal for Ontario affirmed the lower court’s decision on jurisdiction
and set aside the stay, allowing the recognition and enforcement action to be heard in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice.
Chevron appealed the decision to the Supreme Court of Canada and, on September 4, 2015, the Supreme Court dismissed the
appeal and affirmed that the Ontario Superior Court of Justice has jurisdiction over Chevron and Chevron Canada Limited
for purposes of the action. On January 20, 2017, the Ontario Superior Court of Justice granted Chevron Canada Limited’s
and Chevron Corporation’s motions for summary judgment, concluding that the two companies are separate legal entities
with separate rights and obligations. As a result, the Superior Court dismissed the recognition and enforcement claim against
Chevron Canada Limited. Chevron Corporation still remains as a defendant in the action. On February 3, 2017, the Lago
Agrio plaintiffs appealed the Superior Court’s January 20, 2017 decision. On May 24, 2018, the Court of Appeal for Ontario
upheld the Superior Court’s dismissal of Chevron Canada Limited from the case. On June 22, 2018, the Lago Agrio plaintiffs
filed leave to appeal the decision of the Court of Appeal for Ontario to the Supreme Court of Canada.
On June 27, 2012, the Lago Agrio plaintiffs filed a complaint against Chevron Corporation in the Superior Court of Justice in
Brasilia, Brazil, seeking to recognize and enforce the Ecuadorian judgment. On May 13, 2015, the public prosecutor issued
its nonbinding opinion and recommended that the Superior Court of Justice reject the plaintiffs’ recognition and enforcement
request, finding, among other things, that the Lago Agrio judgment was procured through fraud and corruption and cannot be
recognized in Brazil because it violates Brazilian and international public order. On November 29, 2017, the Superior Court
71
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
71
143262_Financials.indd   71 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 64 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
of Justice issued a decision dismissing the Lago Agrio plaintiffs’ recognition and enforcement proceeding based on
jurisdictional grounds. On June 15, 2018, this decision became a final judgment in Brazil.
On October 15, 2012, the provincial court issued an ex parte embargo order that purports to order the seizure of assets
belonging to separate Chevron subsidiaries in Ecuador, Argentina and Colombia. On November 6, 2012, at the request of the
Lago Agrio plaintiffs, a court in Argentina issued a Freeze Order against Chevron Argentina S.R.L. and another Chevron
subsidiary, On January 30, 2013, an appellate court upheld the Freeze Order, but on June 4, 2013 the Supreme Court of
Argentina revoked the Freeze Order in its entirety. On December 12, 2013, the Lago Agrio plaintiffs served Chevron with
notice of their filing of an enforcement proceeding in the National Court, First Instance, of Argentina. Chevron filed its
answer on February 27, 2014, to which the Lago Agrio plaintiffs responded on December 29, 2015. On April 19, 2016, the
public prosecutor in Argentina issued a non-binding opinion recommending to the National Court, First Instance, of
Argentina that it reject the Lago Agrio plaintiffs’ request to recognize the Ecuadorian judgment in Argentina. On
February 24, 2017, the public prosecutor in Argentina issued a supplemental opinion reaffirming its previous
recommendations. On November 1, 2017, the National Court, First Instance, of Argentina issued a decision dismissing the
Lago Agrio plaintiffs’ recognition and enforcement proceeding based on jurisdictional grounds. On November 2, 2017, the
Lago Agrio plaintiffs appealed this decision to the Federal Civil Court of Appeals. On July 3, 2018, the Federal Civil Court
of Appeals affirmed the National Court, First Instance’s, dismissal of the Lago Agrio plaintiffs’ recognition and enforcement
action based on jurisdictional grounds. On October 5, 2018, the Federal Civil Court of Appeals granted, in part, the
admissibility of the Lago Agrio plaintiffs’ appeal to the Supreme Court of Argentina.
Chevron continues to believe the Ecuadorian judgment is illegitimate and unenforceable in Ecuador, the United States and
other countries. The company also believes the judgment is the product of fraud, and contrary to the legitimate scientific
evidence. Chevron cannot predict the timing or ultimate outcome of any enforcement action. Chevron expects to continue a
vigorous defense of any imposition of liability and to contest and defend any and all enforcement actions.
Company’s Bilateral Investment Treaty Arbitration Claims Chevron and Texpet filed an arbitration claim in
September 2009 against the Republic of Ecuador before an arbitral tribunal presiding in the Permanent Court of Arbitration
in The Hague under the Rules of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law. The claim alleges violations of
the Republic of Ecuador’s obligations under the United States–Ecuador Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT) and breaches of
the settlement and release agreements between the Republic of Ecuador and Texpet (described above), which are investment
agreements protected by the BIT. Through the arbitration, Chevron and Texpet are seeking relief against the Republic of
Ecuador, including a declaration that any judgment against Chevron in the Lago Agrio litigation constitutes a violation of
Ecuador’s obligations under the BIT. On January 25, 2012, the Tribunal issued its First Interim Measures Award requiring
the Republic of Ecuador to take all measures at its disposal to suspend or cause to be suspended the enforcement or
recognition within and outside of Ecuador of any judgment against Chevron in the Lago Agrio case pending further order of
the Tribunal. On February 16, 2012, the Tribunal issued a Second Interim Award mandating that the Republic of Ecuador
take all measures necessary (whether by its judicial, legislative or executive branches) to suspend or cause to be suspended
the enforcement and recognition within and outside of Ecuador of the judgment against Chevron. On February 27, 2012, the
Tribunal issued a Third Interim Award confirming its jurisdiction to hear Chevron’s arbitration claims. On February 7, 2013,
the Tribunal issued its Fourth Interim Award in which it declared that the Republic of Ecuador “has violated the First and
Second Interim Awards under the [BIT], the UNCITRAL Rules and international law in regard to the finalization and
enforcement subject to execution of the Lago Agrio Judgment within and outside Ecuador, including (but not limited to)
Canada, Brazil and Argentina.” The Republic of Ecuador subsequently filed in the District Court of The Hague a request to
set aside the Tribunal’s Interim Awards and the First Partial Award (described below), and on January 20, 2016, the District
Court denied the Republic’s request. On April 13, 2016, the Republic of Ecuador appealed the decision. On July 18, 2017,
the Appeals Court of The Hague denied the Republic’s appeal. On October 18, 2017, the Republic appealed the decision of
the Appeals Court of The Hague to the Supreme Court of the Netherlands.
The Tribunal has divided the merits phase of the proceeding into three phases. On September 17, 2013, the Tribunal issued
its First Partial Award from Phase One, finding that the settlement agreements between the Republic of Ecuador and Texpet
applied to Texpet and Chevron, released Texpet and Chevron from claims based on “collective” or “diffuse” rights arising
from Texpet’s operations in the former concession area and precluded third parties from asserting collective/diffuse rights
environmental claims relating to Texpet’s operations in the former concession area but did not preclude individual claims for
personal harm. The Tribunal held a hearing on April 29-30, 2014, to address remaining issues relating to Phase One, and on
March 12, 2015, it issued a nonbinding decision that the Lago Agrio plaintiffs’ complaint, on its face, includes claims not
barred by the settlement agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and Texpet. In the same decision, the Tribunal deferred
to Phase Two remaining issues from Phase One, including whether the Republic of Ecuador breached the 1995 settlement
72
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
72
143262_Financials.indd   72 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 65 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
agreement and the remedies that are available to Chevron and Texpet as a result of that breach. Phase Two issues were
addressed at a hearing held in April and May 2015.
On August 30, 2018, the Tribunal issued its Phase Two award in favor of Chevron and Texpet. The Tribunal unanimously
held that the Ecuadorian judgment was procured through fraud, bribery and corruption and was based on claims that the
Republic of Ecuador had settled and released in the mid-1990s, concluding that the Ecuadorian judgment “violates
international public policy” and “should not be recognized or enforced by the courts of other States.” Specifically, the
Tribunal found that (i) the Republic of Ecuador breached its obligations under the 1995 and 1998 settlement agreements
releasing Texpet and its affiliates from public environmental claims (the same claims on which the Ecuadorian judgment was
exclusively based) and (ii) the Republic of Ecuador committed a denial of justice under customary international law and
under the fair and equitable treatment provision of the BIT due to the fraud and corruption in the Lago Agrio litigation. The
Tribunal also found that Texpet satisfied its environmental remediation obligations with a $40 remediation program and that
Ecuador certified that Texpet had performed all of its obligations under its settlement agreement. Among other things, the
Tribunal ordered the Republic of Ecuador to: (a) take immediate steps to remove the status of enforceability from the
Ecuadorian judgment; (b) promptly advise in writing any State where the Lago Agrio plaintiffs may be seeking the
enforcement or recognition of the Ecuadorian judgment of the Tribunal’s declarations, orders and awards; (c) take measures
to “wipe out all the consequences” of Ecuador’s “internationally wrongful acts in regard to the Ecuadorian judgment;” and
(d) compensate Chevron for any injuries resulting from the Ecuadorian judgment. On December 10, 2018, the Republic of
Ecuador filed in the District Court of The Hague a request to set aside the Tribunal’s Phase Two Award. The Tribunal has
not set a date for Phase Three, the third and final phase of the arbitration, at which damages for Chevron’s injuries will be
determined.
Company’s RICO Action In February 2011, Chevron filed a civil lawsuit in the Federal District Court for the Southern
District of New York against the Lago Agrio plaintiffs and several of their lawyers, consultants and supporters, alleging
violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act and other state laws. Through the civil lawsuit,
Chevron sought relief that included a declaration that any judgment against Chevron in the Lago Agrio litigation is the result
of fraud and other unlawful conduct and is therefore unenforceable. The trial commenced on October 15, 2013 and concluded
on November 22, 2013. On March 4, 2014, the Federal District Court entered a judgment in favor of Chevron, prohibiting the
defendants from seeking to enforce the Lago Agrio judgment in the United States and further prohibiting them from profiting
from their illegal acts. The defendants appealed the Federal District Court’s decision, and, on April 20, 2015, the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit heard oral arguments. On August 8, 2016, the Second Circuit issued a unanimous opinion
affirming in full the judgment of the Federal District Court. On October 27, 2016, the Second Circuit denied the defendants’
petitions for en banc rehearing of the opinion on their appeal. On March 27, 2017, two of the defendants filed a petition for a
Writ of Certiorari to the United States Supreme Court. On June 19, 2017, the United States Supreme Court denied the
defendants’ petition for a Writ of Certiorari.
Management’s Assessment The ultimate outcome of the foregoing matters, including any financial effect on Chevron,
remains uncertain. Management does not believe an estimate of a reasonably possible loss (or a range of loss) can be made in
this case. Due to the defects associated with the Ecuadorian judgment, management does not believe the judgment has any
utility in calculating a reasonably possible loss (or a range of loss). Moreover, the highly uncertain legal environment
surrounding the case provides no basis for management to estimate a reasonably possible loss (or a range of loss).
73
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
73
143262_Financials.indd   73 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 66 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Note 16
Taxes
Income Taxes Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Income tax expense (benefit)
U.S. federal
Current $ (181) $ (382) $ (623)
Deferred 738 (2,561) (1,558)
State and local
Current 183 (97) (15)
Deferred (16) 66 (121)
Total United States 724 (2,974) (2,317)
International
Current 4,662 3,634 2,744
Deferred 329 (708) (2,156)
Total International 4,991 2,926 588
Total income tax expense (benefit) $ 5,715 $ (48) $ (1,729)
The reconciliation between the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate and the company’s effective income tax rate is detailed
in the following table:
2018 2017 2016
Income (loss) before income taxes
United States $ 4,730 $ (441) $ (4,317)
International 15,845 9,662 2,157
Total income (loss) before income taxes 20,575 9,221 (2,160)
Theoretical tax (at U.S. statutory rate of 21% - 2018, 35% - 2017 & 2016) 4,321 3,227 (756)
Effect of U.S. tax reform (26) (2,020) —
Equity affiliate accounting effect (1,526) (1,373) (704)
Effect of income taxes from international operations * 3,132 (130) 608
State and local taxes on income, net of U.S. federal income tax benefit 162 39 (44)
Prior year tax adjustments, claims and settlements (51) (39) (349)
Tax credits (163) (199) (188)
Other U.S.* (134) 447 (296)
Total income tax expense (benefit) $ 5,715 $ (48) $ (1,729)
Effective income tax rate 27.8% (0.5)% 80.0%
* Includes one-time tax costs (benefits) associated with changes in uncertain tax positions and valuation allowances.
The 2018 increase in income tax charge of $5,763, from a benefit of $48 in 2017 to a charge of $5,715 in 2018, is a result of
the year-over-year increase in total income before income tax expense, which is primarily due to higher crude oil realizations
offset by lower gains on asset sales in 2018 compared to 2017. U.S. tax reform resulted in a benefit of $2,020 being
recognized in 2017 reflecting the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities. The company’s effective tax rate
changed from (0.5) percent in 2017 to 28 percent in 2018. The change in effective tax rate is a consequence of the mix effect
resulting from the absolute level of earnings or losses and whether they arose in higher or lower tax rate jurisdictions and the
impact of U.S. tax reform to both the 2018 and 2017 results.
As noted above, U.S. tax reform resulted in the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities in 2017. The U.S.
tax return for 2017 was prepared and filed in 2018 and did not result in any material change to the the provisional amounts
that were recognized in 2017, and the amounts are now considered final.
74
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
74
143262_Financials.indd   74 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 67 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
The company records its deferred taxes on a tax-jurisdiction basis. The reported deferred tax balances are composed of the
following:
At December 31
2018 2017
Deferred tax liabilities
Properties, plant and equipment $ 20,159 $ 19,869
Investments and other 4,943 4,796
Total deferred tax liabilities 25,102 24,665
Deferred tax assets
Foreign tax credits (10,536) (11,872)
Asset retirement obligations/environmental reserves (5,328) (5,511)
Employee benefits (2,787) (3,129)
Deferred credits (1,373) (1,769)
Tax loss carryforwards (4,948) (5,463)
Other accrued liabilities (595) (842)
Inventory (505) (336)
Miscellaneous (3,481) (2,415)
Total deferred tax assets (29,553) (31,337)
Deferred tax assets valuation allowance 15,973 16,574
Total deferred taxes, net $ 11,522 $ 9,902
Deferred tax liabilities at the end of 2018 increased by approximately $400 from year-end 2017. The increase was primarily
related to property, plant and equipment temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets decreased by approximately $1,800 in 2018. The decrease primarily related to lower foreign tax credits
and the utilization of tax loss carryforwards.
The overall valuation allowance relates to deferred tax assets for U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards, tax loss carryforwards
and temporary differences. It reduces the deferred tax assets to amounts that are, in management’s assessment, more likely
than not to be realized. At the end of 2018, the company had tax loss carryforwards of approximately $13,731 and tax credit
carryforwards of approximately $1,198, primarily related to various international tax jurisdictions. Whereas some of these
tax loss carryforwards do not have an expiration date, others expire at various times from 2019 through 2036. U.S. foreign
tax credit carryforwards of $10,536 will expire between 2019 and 2028.
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, deferred taxes were classified on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows:
At December 31
2018 2017
Deferred charges and other assets $ (4,399) $ (4,750)
Noncurrent deferred income taxes 15,921 14,652
Total deferred income taxes, net $ 11,522 $ 9,902
Enactment of U.S. tax reform in 2017 imposed a one-time U.S. federal tax on the deemed repatriation of unremitted earnings
indefinitely reinvested abroad, which did not have a material impact on the company’s financial results. The indefinite
reinvestment assertion continues to apply for the purpose of determining deferred tax liabilities for U.S. state and foreign
withholding tax purposes.
U.S. state and foreign withholding taxes are not accrued for unremitted earnings of international operations that have been or
are intended to be reinvested indefinitely. Undistributed earnings of international consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates for
which no deferred income tax provision has been made for possible future remittances totaled approximately $59,900 at
December 31, 2018. This amount represents earnings reinvested as part of the company’s ongoing international business. It is
not practicable to estimate the amount of state and foreign taxes that might be payable on the possible remittance of earnings
that are intended to be reinvested indefinitely. The company does not anticipate incurring significant additional taxes on
remittances of earnings that are not indefinitely reinvested.
Uncertain Income Tax Positions The company recognizes a tax benefit in the financial statements for an uncertain tax position
only if management’s assessment is that the position is “more likely than not” (i.e., a likelihood greater than 50 percent) to be
allowed by the tax jurisdiction based solely on the technical merits of the position. The term “tax position” in the accounting
standards for income taxes refers to a position in a previously filed tax return or a position expected to be taken in a future tax
return that is reflected in measuring current or deferred income tax assets and liabilities for interim or annual periods.
75
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
75
143262_Financials.indd   75 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 68 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
The following table indicates the changes to the company’s unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31,
2018, 2017 and 2016. The term “unrecognized tax benefits” in the accounting standards for income taxes refers to the
differences between a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and the benefit measured and recognized in
the financial statements. Interest and penalties are not included.
2018 2017 2016
Balance at January 1 $ 4,828 $ 3,031 $ 3,042
Foreign currency effects (6) 43 1
Additions based on tax positions taken in current year 239 1,853 245
Additions for tax positions taken in prior years 153 1,166 181
Reductions for tax positions taken in prior years (131) (90) (390)
Settlements with taxing authorities in current year (13) (1,173) (36)
Reductions as a result of a lapse of the applicable statute of limitations — (2) (12)
Balance at December 31 $ 5,070 $ 4,828 $ 3,031
Approximately 82 percent of the $5,070 of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2018, would have an impact on the
effective tax rate if subsequently recognized. Certain of these unrecognized tax benefits relate to tax carryforwards that may
require a full valuation allowance at the time of any such recognition.
Tax positions for Chevron and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to income tax audits by many tax jurisdictions
throughout the world. For the company’s major tax jurisdictions, examinations of tax returns for certain prior tax years had
not been completed as of December 31, 2018. For these jurisdictions, the latest years for which income tax examinations had
been finalized were as follows: United States – 2013, Nigeria – 2000, Australia – 2006 and Kazakhstan – 2007.
The company engages in ongoing discussions with tax authorities regarding the resolution of tax matters in the various
jurisdictions. Both the outcome of these tax matters and the timing of resolution and/or closure of the tax audits are highly
uncertain. However, it is reasonably possible that developments on tax matters in certain tax jurisdictions may result in
significant increases or decreases in the company’s total unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months. Given the
number of years that still remain subject to examination and the number of matters being examined in the various tax
jurisdictions, the company is unable to estimate the range of possible adjustments to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits.
On the Consolidated Statement of Income, the company reports interest and penalties related to liabilities for uncertain tax
positions as “Income tax expense.” As of December 31, 2018, accruals of $33 for anticipated interest and penalty obligations
were included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, compared with accruals of $178 as of year-end 2017. Income tax expense
(benefit) associated with interest and penalties was $8, $(161) and $38 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Taxes Other Than on Income Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
United States
Excise and similar taxes on products and merchandise* $ 4,830 $ 4,398 $ 4,335
Consumer excise taxes collected on behalf of third parties* (4,830) ——
Import duties and other levies 15 11 9
Property and other miscellaneous taxes 1,577 1,824 1,680
Payroll taxes 246 241 252
Taxes on production 325 206 159
Total United States 2,163 6,680 6,435
International
Excise and similar taxes on products and merchandise* 3,031 2,791 2,570
Consumer excise taxes collected on behalf of third parties* (3,031) ——
Import duties and other levies 37 45 33
Property and other miscellaneous taxes 2,370 2,563 2,379
Payroll taxes 132 137 145
Taxes on production 165 115 106
Total International 2,704 5,651 5,233
Total taxes other than on income $ 4,867 $ 12,331 $ 11,668
* Beginning in 2018, these taxes are netted in “Taxes other than on income” in accordance with ASU 2014-09. Refer to Note 25, “Revenue” beginning on page 88.
76
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
76
143262_Financials.indd   76 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 69 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Note 17
Properties, Plant and Equipment1
At December 31 Year ended December 31
Gross Investment at Cost Net Investment Additions at Cost2 Depreciation Expense3
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Upstream
United States $ 88,155 $ 84,602 $ 83,929 $ 39,526 $ 38,722 $ 39,710 $ 6,434 $ 4,995 $ 4,432 $ 5,328 $ 5,527 $ 6,576
International 215,329 224,211 214,557 113,603 123,191 125,502 4,865 7,934 12,084 12,726 12,096 11,247
Total Upstream 303,484 308,813 298,486 153,129 161,913 165,212 11,299 12,929 16,516 18,054 17,623 17,823
Downstream
United States 24,685 23,598 22,795 10,838 10,346 10,196 1,259 907 528 751 753 956
International 7,237 7,094 9,350 3,023 3,074 4,094 278 306 375 282 282 332
Total Downstream 31,922 30,692 32,145 13,861 13,420 14,290 1,537 1,213 903 1,033 1,035 1,288
All Other
United States 4,667 4,798 5,263 2,186 2,341 2,635 224 218 198 320 677 328
International 171 182 183 31 38 49 6 46 12 14 18
Total All Other 4,838 4,980 5,446 2,217 2,379 2,684 230 222 204 332 691 346
Total United States 117,507 112,998 111,987 52,550 51,409 52,541 7,917 6,120 5,158 6,399 6,957 7,860
Total International 222,737 231,487 224,090 116,657 126,303 129,645 5,149 8,244 12,465 13,020 12,392 11,597
Total $ 340,244 $344,485 $336,077 $ 169,207 $177,712 $182,186 $13,066 $14,364 $17,623 $ 19,419 $ 19,349 $ 19,457
1 Other than the United States and Australia, no other country accounted for 10 percent or more of the company’s net properties, plant and equipment (PP&E) in 2018. Australia
had PP&E of $53,768, $55,514 and $53,962 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
2 Net of dry hole expense related to prior years’ expenditures of $343, $42 and $175 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
3 Depreciation expense includes accretion expense of $654, $668 and $749 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and impairments of $735, $1,021 and $3,186 in 2018, 2017 and
2016, respectively.
Note 18
Short-Term Debt
At December 31
2018 2017
Commercial paper1 $ 7,503 $ 5,379
Notes payable to banks and others with originating terms of one year or less 28 —
Current maturities of long-term debt 2 4,999 6,720
Current maturities of long-term capital leases 18 15
Redeemable long-term obligations
Long-term debt 3,078 3,078
Capital leases — —
Subtotal 15,626 15,192
Reclassified to long-term debt (9,900) (10,000)
Total short-term debt $ 5,726 $ 5,192
1 Weighted-average interest rates at December 31, 2018 and 2017, were 2.43 percent and 1.30 percent, respectively.
2 Net of unamortized discounts and issuance costs: $1 in 2018 and $2 in 2017.
Redeemable long-term obligations consist primarily of tax-exempt variable-rate put bonds that are included as current
liabilities because they become redeemable at the option of the bondholders during the year following the balance sheet date.
The company may periodically enter into interest rate swaps on a portion of its short-term debt. At December 31, 2018, the
company had no interest rate swaps on short-term debt.
At December 31, 2018, the company had $9,900 in committed credit facilities with various major banks that enable the
refinancing of short-term obligations on a long-term basis. The credit facilities consist of a 364-day facility which enables
borrowing of up to $9,575 and allows the company to convert any amounts outstanding into a term loan for a period of up to
one year, and a $325 five-year facility expiring in December 2020. These facilities support commercial paper borrowing and
can also be used for general corporate purposes. The company’s practice has been to continually replace expiring
commitments with new commitments on substantially the same terms, maintaining levels management believes appropriate.
Any borrowings under the facilities would be unsecured indebtedness at interest rates based on the London Interbank Offered
Rate or an average of base lending rates published by specified banks and on terms reflecting the company’s strong credit
rating. No borrowings were outstanding under these facilities at December 31, 2018.
77
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
77
143262_Financials.indd   77 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 70 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
The company classified $9,900 and $10,000 of short-term debt as long-term at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Settlement of these obligations is not expected to require the use of working capital within one year, and the company has
both the intent and the ability, as evidenced by committed credit facilities, to refinance them on a long-term basis.
Note 19
Long-Term Debt
Total long-term debt including capital lease obligations at December 31, 2018, was $28,733. The company’s long-term debt
outstanding at year-end 2018 and 2017 was as follows:
At December 31
2018 2017
Principal Principal
3.191% notes due 2023 $ 2,250 $ 2,250
2.954% notes due 2026 2,250 2,250
2.355% notes due 2022 2,000 2,000
1.961% notes due 2020 1,750 1,750
4.950% notes due 2019 1,500 1,500
1.561% notes due 2019 1,350 1,350
2.100% notes due 2021 1,350 1,350
2.419% notes due 2020 1,250 1,250
2.427% notes due 2020 1,000 1,000
2.895% notes due 2024 1,000 1,000
Floating rate notes due 2019 (2.905%) 1 850 850
2.193% notes due 2019 750 750
2.566% notes due 2023 750 750
3.326% notes due 2025 750 750
2.498% notes due 2022 700 700
2.411% notes due 2022 700 700
Floating rate notes due 2021 (3.313%) 1 650 650
Floating rate notes due 2022 (3.245%) 1 650 650
1.991% notes due 2020 600 600
1.686% notes due 2019 550 550
Floating rate notes due 2020 (2.948%) 2 400 400
3.400% loan3 218 —
8.625% debentures due 2032 147 147
8.625% debentures due 2031 108 108
8.000% debentures due 2032 75 75
9.750% debentures due 2020 54 54
8.875% debentures due 2021 40 40
Medium-term notes, maturing from 2021 to 2038 (6.629%) 1 38 38
1.718% notes due 2018 — 2,000
1.365% notes due 2018 — 1,750
Floating rate notes due 2018 — 1,650
1.790% notes due 2018 — 1,250
Amortizing bank loan due 2018 — 72
Total including debt due within one year 23,730 30,234
Debt due within one year (5,000) (6,722)
Reclassified from short-term debt 9,900 10,000
Unamortized discounts and debt issuance costs (24) (35)
Capital lease obligations4 127 94
Total long-term debt $ 28,733 $ 33,571
1 Weighted-average interest rate at December 31, 2018.
2 Interest rate at December 31, 2018.
3 Maturity date is conditional upon the occurrence of certain events. 2021 is the earliest period in which the loan may become payable.
4 For details on capital lease obligations, see Note 5 beginning on page 62.
Chevron has an automatic shelf registration statement that expires in May 2021. This registration statement is for an
unspecified amount of nonconvertible debt securities issued or guaranteed by the company.
Long-term debt excluding capital lease obligations with a principal balance of $23,730 matures as follows: 2019 – $5,000;
2020 – $5,054; 2021 – $2,272; 2022 – $4,050; 2023 – $3,003; and after 2023 – $4,351.
See Note 8, beginning on page 63, for information concerning the fair value of the company’s long-term debt.
78
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
78
143262_Financials.indd   78 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 71 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Note 20
Accounting for Suspended Exploratory Wells
The company continues to capitalize exploratory well costs after the completion of drilling when (a) the well has found a
sufficient quantity of reserves to justify completion as a producing well, and (b) the business unit is making sufficient
progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. If either condition is not met or if the
company obtains information that raises substantial doubt about the economic or operational viability of the project, the
exploratory well would be assumed to be impaired, and its costs, net of any salvage value, would be charged to expense.
The following table indicates the changes to the company’s suspended exploratory well costs for the three years ended
December 31, 2018:
2018 2017 2016
Beginning balance at January 1 $ 3,702 $ 3,540 $ 3,312
Additions to capitalized exploratory well costs pending the determination of proved reserves 207 323 465
Reclassifications to wells, facilities and equipment based on the determination of proved reserves (13) (113) (119)
Capitalized exploratory well costs charged to expense (333) (39) (118)
Other reductions* — (9) —
Ending balance at December 31 $ 3,563 $ 3,702 $ 3,540
* Represents property sales.
The following table provides an aging of capitalized well costs and the number of projects for which exploratory well costs
have been capitalized for a period greater than one year since the completion of drilling.
At December 31
2018 2017 2016
Exploratory well costs capitalized for a period of one year or less $ 202 $ 307 $ 445
Exploratory well costs capitalized for a period greater than one year 3,361 3,395 3,095
Balance at December 31 $ 3,563 $ 3,702 $ 3,540
Number of projects with exploratory well costs that have been capitalized for a period greater than one year * 30 32 35
* Certain projects have multiple wells or fields or both.
Of the $3,361 of exploratory well costs capitalized for more than one year at December 31, 2018, $1,585 (14 projects) is
related to projects that had drilling activities underway or firmly planned for the near future. The $1,776 balance is related to
16 projects in areas requiring a major capital expenditure before production could begin and for which additional drilling
efforts were not underway or firmly planned for the near future. Additional drilling was not deemed necessary because the
presence of hydrocarbons had already been established, and other activities were in process to enable a future decision on
project development.
The projects for the $1,776 referenced above had the following activities associated with assessing the reserves and the
projects’ economic viability: (a) $672 (three projects) – undergoing front-end engineering and design with final investment
decision expected within four years; (b) $93 (one project) – development concept under review by government; (c) $963
(eight projects) – development alternatives under review; (d) $48 (four projects) – miscellaneous activities for projects with
smaller amounts suspended. While progress was being made on all 30 projects, the decision on the recognition of proved
reserves under SEC rules in some cases may not occur for several years because of the complexity, scale and negotiations
associated with the projects. More than half of these decisions are expected to occur in the next five years.
The $3,361 of suspended well costs capitalized for a period greater than one year as of December 31, 2018, represents 153
exploratory wells in 30 projects. The tables below contain the aging of these costs on a well and project basis:
Aging based on drilling completion date of individual wells: Amount Number of wells
1998-2007 $ 410 31
2008-2012 1,076 61
2013-2017 1,875 61
Total $ 3,361 153
Aging based on drilling completion date of last suspended well in project: Amount Number of projects
2003-2010 $ 338 5
2011-2014 894 10
2015-2018 2,129 15
Total $ 3,361 30
79
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
79
143262_Financials.indd   79 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 72 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Note 21
Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation
Compensation expense for stock options for 2018, 2017 and 2016 was $105 ($83 after tax), $137 ($89 after tax) and $271
($176 after tax), respectively. In addition, compensation expense for stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, performance
shares and restricted stock units was $60 ($47 after tax), $231 ($150 after tax) and $371 ($241 after tax) for 2018, 2017 and
2016, respectively. No significant stock-based compensation cost was capitalized at December 31, 2018, or December 31,
2017.
Cash received in payment for option exercises under all share-based payment arrangements for 2018, 2017 and 2016 was
$1,159, $1,100 and $647, respectively. Actual tax benefits realized for the tax deductions from option exercises were $43,
$48 and $21 for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Cash paid to settle performance shares, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights was $157, $187 and $82 for 2018,
2017 and 2016, respectively.
Awards under the Chevron Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) may take the form of, but are not limited to, stock options,
restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance shares and nonstock grants. From April 2004
through May 2023, no more than 260 million shares may be issued under the LTIP. For awards issued on or after May 29, 2013,
no more than 50 million of those shares may be in a form other than a stock option, stock appreciation right or award requiring
full payment for shares by the award recipient. For the major types of awards issued before January 1, 2017, the contractual
terms vary between three years for the performance shares and restricted stock units, and 10 years for the stock options and
stock appreciation rights. For awards issued after January 1, 2017, contractual terms vary between three years for the
performance shares and special restricted stock units, five years for standard restricted stock units and 10 years for the stock
options and stock appreciation rights. Forfeitures for performance shares, restricted stock units, and stock appreciation rights are
recognized as they occur. Forfeitures for stock options are estimated using historical forfeiture data dating back to 1990.
The fair market values of stock options and stock appreciation rights granted in 2018, 2017 and 2016 were measured on the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, with the following weighted-average assumptions:
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Expected term in years 1 6.5 6.3 6.3
Volatility2 21.2 % 21.7 % 21.7 %
Risk-free interest rate based on zero coupon U.S. treasury note 2.6 % 2.2 % 1.6 %
Dividend yield 3.8 % 4.2 % 4.5 %
Weighted-average fair value per option granted $ 18.18 $ 15.31 $ 9.53
1 Expected term is based on historical exercise and post-vesting cancellation data.
2 Volatility rate is based on historical stock prices over an appropriate period, generally equal to the expected term.
A summary of option activity during 2018 is presented below:
Shares (Thousands)
Weighted-Average
Exercise Price
Averaged Remaining
Contractual Term (Years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value
Outstanding at January 1, 2018 103,765 $ 97.40
Granted 4,665 $ 125.35
Exercised (12,991) $ 88.11
Forfeited (715) $ 115.25
Outstanding at December 31, 2018 94,724 $ 99.92 5.07 $ 1,101
Exercisable at December 31, 2018 81,074 $ 99.34 4.60 $ 933
The total intrinsic value (i.e., the difference between the exercise price and the market price) of options exercised during
2018, 2017 and 2016 was $506, $407 and $240, respectively. During this period, the company continued its practice of
issuing treasury shares upon exercise of these awards.
As of December 31, 2018, there was $53 of total unrecognized before-tax compensation cost related to nonvested share-
based compensation arrangements granted under the plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of 1.6 years.
At January 1, 2018, the number of LTIP performance shares outstanding was equivalent to 3,090,793 shares. During 2018,
1,491,141 performance shares were granted, 746,450 shares vested with cash proceeds distributed to recipients and 165,754
shares were forfeited. At December 31, 2018, performance shares outstanding were 3,669,730. The fair value of the liability
recorded for these instruments was $258, and was measured using the Monte Carlo simulation method.
80
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
80
143262_Financials.indd   80 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 73 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
At January 1, 2018, the number of restricted stock units outstanding was equivalent to 1,236,500 shares. During 2018,
819,769 restricted stock units were granted, 222,946 units vested with cash proceeds distributed to recipients and 95,844
units were forfeited. At December 31, 2018, restricted stock units outstanding were 1,737,479. The fair value of the liability
recorded for the vested portion of these instruments was $125, valued at the stock price as of December 31, 2018. In addition,
outstanding stock appreciation rights that were granted under LTIP totaled approximately 4.2 million equivalent shares as of
December 31, 2018. The fair value of the liability recorded for the vested portion of these instruments was $70.
Note 22
Employee Benefit Plans
The company has defined benefit pension plans for many employees. The company typically prefunds defined benefit plans
as required by local regulations or in certain situations where prefunding provides economic advantages. In the United States,
all qualified plans are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) minimum funding standard. The
company does not typically fund U.S. nonqualified pension plans that are not subject to funding requirements under laws and
regulations because contributions to these pension plans may be less economic and investment returns may be less attractive
than the company’s other investment alternatives.
The company also sponsors other postretirement benefit (OPEB) plans that provide medical and dental benefits, as well as
life insurance for some active and qualifying retired employees. The plans are unfunded, and the company and retirees share
the costs. For the company’s main U.S. medical plan, the increase to the pre-Medicare company contribution for retiree
medical coverage is limited to no more than 4 percent each year. Certain life insurance benefits are paid by the company.
The company recognizes the overfunded or underfunded status of each of its defined benefit pension and OPEB plans as an
asset or liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The funded status of the company’s pension and OPEB plans for 2018 and 2017 follows:
Pension Benefits
2018 2017 Other Benefits
U.S. Int’l. U.S. Int’l. 2018 2017
Change in Benefit Obligation
Benefit obligation at January 1 $ 13,580 $ 5,540 $ 13,271 $ 5,169 $ 2,788 $ 2,549
Service cost 480 141 489 151 42 32
Interest cost 370 206 366 219 94 95
Plan participants’ contributions —4 —4 71 78
Plan amendments — 23 —1 2 —
Actuarial (gain) loss (1,051) (239) 1,168 (37) (272) 266
Foreign currency exchange rate changes — (227) — 374 (9) 10
Benefits paid (1,653) (432) (1,714) (310) (237) (229)
Divestitures — (196) — (31) (49) (13)
Benefit obligation at December 31 11,726 4,820 13,580 5,540 2,430 2,788
Change in Plan Assets
Fair value of plan assets at January 1 9,948 4,766 9,550 4,174 — —
Actual return on plan assets (566) (9) 1,384 319 — —
Foreign currency exchange rate changes — (221) — 358 — —
Employer contributions 803 232 728 252 166 151
Plan participants’ contributions —4 —4 71 78
Benefits paid (1,653) (432) (1,714) (310) (237) (229)
Divestitures — (198) — (31) — —
Fair value of plan assets at December 31 8,532 4,142 9,948 4,766 — —
Funded status at December 31 $ (3,194) $ (678) $ (3,632) $ (774) $ (2,430) $ (2,788)
Amounts recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the company’s pension and OPEB plans at December 31, 2018
and 2017, include:
Pension Benefits
2018 2017 Other Benefits
U.S. Int’l. U.S. Int’l. 2018 2017
Deferred charges and other assets $ 17 $ 412 $ 21 $ 448 $— $—
Accrued liabilities (180) (66) (188) (100) (175) (174)
Noncurrent employee benefit plans (3,031) (1,024) (3,465) (1,122) (2,255) (2,614)
Net amount recognized at December 31 $ (3,194) $ (678) $ (3,632) $ (774) $ (2,430) $ (2,788)
81
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
81
143262_Financials.indd   81 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 74 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Amounts recognized on a before-tax basis in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” for the company’s pension and OPEB
plans were $4,448 and $5,286 at the end of 2018 and 2017, respectively. These amounts consisted of:
Pension Benefits
2018 2017 Other Benefits
U.S. Int’l. U.S. Int’l. 2018 2017
Net actuarial loss $ 3,694 $ 955 $ 4,258 $ 1,005 $ (56) $ 207
Prior service (credit) costs 7 104 9 94 (256) (287)
Total recognized at December 31 $ 3,701 $ 1,059 $ 4,267 $ 1,099 $ (312) $ (80)
The accumulated benefit obligations for all U.S. and international pension plans were $10,514 and $4,360, respectively, at
December 31, 2018, and $12,194 and $5,009, respectively, at December 31, 2017.
Information for U.S. and international pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets at
December 31, 2018 and 2017, was:
Pension Benefits
2018 2017
U.S. Int’l. U.S. Int’l.
Projected benefit obligations $ 11,667 $ 1,277 $ 13,514 $ 1,590
Accumulated benefit obligations 10,456 1,062 12,129 1,326
Fair value of plan assets 8,456 198 9,862 413
The components of net periodic benefit cost and amounts recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive
Income for 2018, 2017 and 2016 are shown in the table below:
Pension Benefits
2018 2017 2016 Other Benefits
U.S. Int’l. U.S. Int’l. U.S. Int’l. 2018 2017 2016
Net Periodic Benefit Cost
Service cost $ 480 $ 141 $ 489 $ 151 $ 494 $ 159 $ 42 $ 32 $ 60
Interest cost 370 206 366 219 377 261 94 95 128
Expected return on plan assets (636) (253) (597) (239) (723) (243) — ——
Amortization of prior service costs (credits) 2 10 (5) 13 (9) 14 (28) (28) 14
Recognized actuarial losses 304 29 340 44 335 47 15 (5) 19
Settlement losses 411 33 436 2 511 6 — ——
Curtailment losses (gains) —3 ———— — ——
Total net periodic benefit cost 931 169 1,029 190 985 244 123 94 221
Changes Recognized in Comprehensive Income
Net actuarial (gain) loss during period 151 12 381 (94) 690 55 (248) 284 (430)
Amortization of actuarial loss (715) (62) (776) (46) (846) (53) (15) 5 (19)
Prior service (credits) costs during period — 23 — 1—— 3 — (345)
Amortization of prior service (costs) credits (2) (13) 5 (13) 9 (14) 28 28 (14)
Total changes recognized in other
comprehensive income (566) (40) (390) (152) (147) (12) (232) 317 (808)
Recognized in Net Periodic Benefit Cost and Other
Comprehensive Income $ 365 $ 129 $ 639 $ 38 $ 838 $ 232 $ (109) $411 $ (587)
Net actuarial losses recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” at December 31, 2018, for the company’s U.S.
pension, international pension and OPEB plans are being amortized on a straight-line basis over approximately 10, 12 and 13
years, respectively. These amortization periods represent the estimated average remaining service of employees expected to
receive benefits under the plans. These losses are amortized to the extent they exceed 10 percent of the higher of the
projected benefit obligation or market-related value of plan assets. The amount subject to amortization is determined on a
plan-by-plan basis. During 2019, the company estimates actuarial losses of $239, $19 and $(3) will be amortized from
“Accumulated other comprehensive loss” for U.S. pension, international pension and OPEB plans, respectively. In addition,
the company estimates an additional $290 will be recognized from “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” during 2019
related to lump-sum settlement costs from the main U.S. pension plans.
The weighted average amortization period for recognizing prior service costs (credits) recorded in “Accumulated other
comprehensive loss” at December 31, 2018, was approximately 4 and 8 years for U.S. and international pension plans,
respectively, and 8 years for OPEB plans. During 2019, the company estimates prior service (credits) costs of $2, $12 and
82
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
82
143262_Financials.indd   82 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 75 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
$(28) will be amortized from “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” for U.S. pension, international pension and OPEB
plans, respectively.
Assumptions The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine benefit obligations and net periodic
benefit costs for years ended December 31:
Pension Benefits
2018 2017 2016 Other Benefits
U.S. Int’l. U.S. Int’l. U.S. Int’l. 2018 2017 2016
Assumptions used to determine benefit obligations:
Discount rate 4.2% 4.4% 3.5% 3.9% 3.9% 4.3% 4.4% 3.8% 4.3%
Rate of compensation increase 4.5% 4.0% 4.5% 4.0% 4.5% 4.5% N/A N/A N/A
Assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost:
Discount rate for service cost 3.7% 3.9% 4.2% 4.3% 4.4% 5.3% 3.9% 4.6% 4.9%
Discount rate for interest cost 3.0% 3.9% 3.0% 4.3% 3.0% 5.3% 3.5% 3.8% 4.0%
Expected return on plan assets 6.8% 5.5% 6.8% 5.5% 7.3% 6.3% N/A N/A N/A
Rate of compensation increase 4.5% 4.0% 4.5% 4.5% 4.5% 4.8% N/A N/A N/A
Expected Return on Plan Assets The company’s estimated long-term rates of return on pension assets are driven primarily
by actual historical asset-class returns, an assessment of expected future performance, advice from external actuarial firms
and the incorporation of specific asset-class risk factors. Asset allocations are periodically updated using pension plan asset/
liability studies, and the company’s estimated long-term rates of return are consistent with these studies.
For 2018, the company used an expected long-term rate of return of 6.75 percent for U.S. pension plan assets, which account
for 67 percent of the company’s pension plan assets. In 2017, the company used a long-term rate of return of 6.75 percent for
these plans, and in 2016, 7.25 percent.
The market-related value of assets of the main U.S. pension plan used in the determination of pension expense was based on
the market values in the three months preceding the year-end measurement date. Management considers the three-month time
period long enough to minimize the effects of distortions from day-to-day market volatility and still be contemporaneous to
the end of the year. For other plans, market value of assets as of year-end is used in calculating the pension expense.
Discount Rate The discount rate assumptions used to determine the U.S. and international pension and OPEB plan
obligations and expense reflect the rate at which benefits could be effectively settled, and are equal to the equivalent single
rate resulting from yield curve analysis. This analysis considered the projected benefit payments specific to the company’s
plans and the yields on high-quality bonds. The projected cash flows were discounted to the valuation date using the yield
curve for the main U.S. pension and OPEB plans. The effective discount rates derived from this analysis at the end of 2018
were 4.2 percent for the main U.S. pension plan and 4.3 percent for the main U.S. OPEB plan. The discount rates for these
plans at the end of 2017 were 3.5 and 3.6 percent, respectively, while in 2016 they were 3.9 and 4.1 percent for these plans,
respectively.
Other Benefit Assumptions Assumed health care cost-trend rates can have a significant effect on the amounts reported for
retiree health care costs. For the measurement of accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2018, for
the main U.S. OPEB plan, the assumed health care cost-trend rates start with 7.2 percent in 2019 and gradually decline to
4.5 percent for 2025 and beyond. For this measurement at December 31, 2017, the assumed health care cost-trend rates
started with 7.4 percent in 2018 and gradually declined to 4.5 percent for 2025 and beyond. A 1-percentage-point change in
the assumed health care cost-trend rates would have the following effects on worldwide plans:
1 Percent Increase 1 Percent Decrease
Effect on total service and interest cost components $ 12 $ (10)
Effect on postretirement benefit obligation $ 197 $ (156)
Plan Assets and Investment Strategy
The fair value measurements of the company’s pension plans for 2018 and 2017 are on the following page:
83
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
83
143262_Financials.indd   83 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 76 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
U.S. Int’l.
Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 NAV Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 NAV
At December 31, 2017
Equities
U.S.1 $ 1,331 $ 1,331 $ — $ — — $ 652 $ 651 $ 1 $ — $ —
International 2,060 2,057 3 — — 691 691 — — —
Collective Trusts/Mutual Funds2 1,089 22 — — 1,067 204 19 4 — 181
Fixed Income
Government 274 — 274 — — 296 77 219 — —
Corporate 1,492 — 1,492 — — 593 — 563 30 —
Bank Loans 117 — 106 11 — — — — — —
Mortgage/Asset Backed 1 — 1 — — 8 — 8 — —
Collective Trusts/Mutual Funds2 1,130 — — — 1,130 1,481 — 16 — 1,465
Mixed Funds3 — — —— — 8 0 17 9— —
Real Estate4 1,096 — — — 1,096 376 — — 56 320
Alternative Investments5 1,022 — — — 1,022 — — — — —
Cash and Cash Equivalents 260 255 5 — — 366 362 4 — —
Other6 76 (2) 28 43 7 19 (2) 18 3 —
Total at December 31, 2017 $ 9,948 $ 3,663 $ 1,909 $ 54 4,322 $ 4,766 $ 1,799 $ 912 $ 89 $ 1,966
At December 31, 2018
Equities
U.S.
1 $ 1,110 $ 1,110 $ — $ — $ — $ 520 $ 520 $ — $ — $ —
International 1,631 1,630 1 — — 521 520 — 1 —
Collective Trusts/Mutual Funds2 893 21 — — 872 152 9 — — 143
Fixed Income
Government 225 — 225 — — 254 97 157 — —
Corporate 1,382 — 1,382 — — 409 — 389 20 —
Bank Loans 119 — 114 5 — — — — — —
Mortgage/Asset Backed 1 — 1— — 6 — 6— —
Collective Trusts/Mutual Funds2 877 — — — 877 1,521 15 — — 1,506
Mixed Funds3 — — —— — 7 4 37 1— —
Real Estate4 1,065 — — — 1,065 378 — — 56 322
Alternative Investments5 941 — — — 941 — — — — —
Cash and Cash Equivalents 212 208 4 — — 287 277 2 — 8
Other6 76 (4) 31 44 5 20 — 17 3 —
Total at December 31, 2018 $ 8,532 $ 2,965 $ 1,758 $ 49 $ 3,760 $ 4,142 $ 1,441 $ 642 $ 80 $ 1,979
1 U.S. equities include investments in the company’s common stock in the amount of $9 at December 31, 2018, and $12 at December 31, 2017.
2 Collective Trusts/Mutual Funds for U.S. plans are entirely index funds; for International plans, they are mostly unit trust and index funds.
3 Mixed funds are composed of funds that invest in both equity and fixed-income instruments in order to diversify and lower risk.
4 The year-end valuations of the U.S. real estate assets are based on third-party appraisals that occur at least once a year for each property in the portfolio.
5 Alternative investments focus on market-neutral strategies that have a low expected correlation to traditional asset classes.
6 The “Other” asset class includes net payables for securities purchased but not yet settled (Level 1); dividends and interest- and tax-related receivables (Level 2); insurance
contracts (Level 3); and investments in private-equity limited partnerships (NAV).
The effects of fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs on changes in Level 3 plan assets are outlined
below:
Equity Fixed Income
International Corporate Bank Loans Real Estate Other Total
Total at December 31, 2016 $ — $ 19 $ 11 $ 60 $ 44 $ 134
Actual Return on Plan Assets:
Assets held at the reporting date — 1 — 1 — 2
Assets sold during the period — — — — — —
Purchases, Sales and Settlements — 10 3 (5) 2 10
Transfers in and/or out of Level 3 — — (3) — — (3)
Total at December 31, 2017 $ — $ 30 $ 11 $ 56 $ 46 $ 143
Actual Return on Plan Assets:
Assets held at the reporting date 4 (2) — 13 — 15
Assets sold during the period (4) — — — — (4)
Purchases, Sales and Settlements — (7) (4) (13) — (24)
Transfers in and/or out of Level 3 1 — (2) — — (1)
Total at December 31, 2018 $ 1 $ 21 $ 5 $ 56 $ 46 $ 129
84
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
84
143262_Financials.indd   84 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 77 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
The primary investment objectives of the pension plans are to achieve the highest rate of total return within prudent levels of
risk and liquidity, to diversify and mitigate potential downside risk associated with the investments, and to provide adequate
liquidity for benefit payments and portfolio management.
The company’s U.S. and U.K. pension plans comprise 91 percent of the total pension assets. Both the U.S. and U.K. plans
have an Investment Committee that regularly meets during the year to review the asset holdings and their returns. To assess
the plans’ investment performance, long-term asset allocation policy benchmarks have been established.
For the primary U.S. pension plan, the company’s Investment Committee has established the following approved asset
allocation ranges: Equities 30–60 percent, Fixed Income and Cash 20–65 percent, Real Estate 0–15 percent, and Alternative
Investments 0–15 percent. For the U.K. pension plan, the U.K. Board of Trustees has established the following asset
allocation guidelines: Equities 25–45 percent, Fixed Income and Cash 40–75 percent, and Real Estate 5–15 percent. The
other significant international pension plans also have established maximum and minimum asset allocation ranges that vary
by plan. Actual asset allocation within approved ranges is based on a variety of factors, including market conditions and
illiquidity constraints. To mitigate concentration and other risks, assets are invested across multiple asset classes with active
investment managers and passive index funds.
The company does not prefund its OPEB obligations.
Cash Contributions and Benefit Payments In 2018, the company contributed $803 and $232 to its U.S. and international
pension plans, respectively. In 2019, the company expects contributions to be approximately $700 to its U.S. plans and $200
to its international pension plans. Actual contribution amounts are dependent upon investment returns, changes in pension
obligations, regulatory environments, tax law changes and other economic factors. Additional funding may ultimately be
required if investment returns are insufficient to offset increases in plan obligations.
The company anticipates paying OPEB benefits of approximately $175 in 2019; $166 was paid in 2018.
The following benefit payments, which include estimated future service, are expected to be paid by the company in the next
10 years:
Pension Benefits Other
U.S. Int’l. Benefits
2019 $ 1,310 $ 271 $ 175
2020 $ 1,240 $ 266 $ 172
2021 $ 1,170 $ 577 $ 171
2022 $ 1,145 $ 228 $ 168
2023 $ 1,118 $ 234 $ 166
2024-2028 $ 4,972 $ 1,392 $ 795
Employee Savings Investment Plan Eligible employees of Chevron and certain of its subsidiaries participate in the Chevron
Employee Savings Investment Plan (ESIP). Compensation expense for the ESIP totaled $270, $316 and $281 in 2018, 2017
and 2016, respectively.
Benefit Plan Trusts Prior to its acquisition by Chevron, Texaco established a benefit plan trust for funding obligations under
some of its benefit plans. At year-end 2018, the trust contained 14.2 million shares of Chevron treasury stock. The trust will
sell the shares or use the dividends from the shares to pay benefits only to the extent that the company does not pay such
benefits. The company intends to continue to pay its obligations under the benefit plans. The trustee will vote the shares held
in the trust as instructed by the trust’s beneficiaries. The shares held in the trust are not considered outstanding for
earnings-per-share purposes until distributed or sold by the trust in payment of benefit obligations.
Prior to its acquisition by Chevron, Unocal established various grantor trusts to fund obligations under some of its benefit
plans, including the deferred compensation and supplemental retirement plans. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, trust assets
of $34 and $35, respectively, were invested primarily in interest-earning accounts.
Employee Incentive Plans The Chevron Incentive Plan is an annual cash bonus plan for eligible employees that links
awards to corporate, business unit and individual performance in the prior year. Charges to expense for cash bonuses were
$1,048, $936 and $662 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Chevron also has the LTIP for officers and other regular
salaried employees of the company and its subsidiaries who hold positions of significant responsibility. Awards under the
LTIP consist of stock options and other share-based compensation that are described in Note 21, beginning on page 80.
85
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
85
143262_Financials.indd   85 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 78 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Note 23
Other Contingencies and Commitments
Income Taxes The company calculates its income tax expense and liabilities quarterly. These liabilities generally are subject
to audit and are not finalized with the individual taxing authorities until several years after the end of the annual period for
which income taxes have been calculated. Refer to Note 16, beginning on page 74, for a discussion of the periods for which
tax returns have been audited for the company’s major tax jurisdictions and a discussion for all tax jurisdictions of the
differences between the amount of tax benefits recognized in the financial statements and the amount taken or expected to be
taken in a tax return.
Settlement of open tax years, as well as other tax issues in countries where the company conducts its businesses, are not
expected to have a material effect on the consolidated financial position or liquidity of the company and, in the opinion of
management, adequate provisions have been made for all years under examination or subject to future examination.
Guarantees The company has two guarantees to equity affiliates totaling $968. Of this amount, $637 is associated with a
financing arrangement with an equity affiliate. Over the approximate 3-year remaining term of this guarantee, the maximum
amount will be reduced as payments are made by the affiliate. The remaining amount of $331 is associated with certain
payments under a terminal use agreement entered into by an equity affiliate. Over the approximate 9-year remaining term of
this guarantee, the maximum guarantee amount will be reduced as certain fees are paid by the affiliate. There are numerous
cross-indemnity agreements with the affiliate and the other partners to permit recovery of amounts paid under the guarantee.
Chevron has recorded no liability for either guarantee.
Indemnifications In the acquisition of Unocal, the company assumed certain indemnities relating to contingent
environmental liabilities associated with assets that were sold in 1997. The acquirer of those assets shared in certain
environmental remediation costs up to a maximum obligation of $200, which had been reached at December 31, 2009. Under
the indemnification agreement, after reaching the $200 obligation, Chevron is solely responsible until April 2022, when the
indemnification expires. The environmental conditions or events that are subject to these indemnities must have arisen prior
to the sale of the assets in 1997.
Although the company has provided for known obligations under this indemnity that are probable and reasonably estimable,
the amount of additional future costs may be material to results of operations in the period in which they are recognized. The
company does not expect these costs will have a material effect on its consolidated financial position or liquidity.
Long-Term Unconditional Purchase Obligations and Commitments, Including Throughput and Take-or-Pay
Agreements The company and its subsidiaries have certain contingent liabilities with respect to long-term unconditional
purchase obligations and commitments, including throughput and take-or-pay agreements, some of which relate to suppliers’
financing arrangements. The agreements typically provide goods and services, such as pipeline and storage capacity, drill
ships, utilities, and petroleum products, to be used or sold in the ordinary course of the company’s business. The aggregate
approximate amounts of required payments under these various commitments are: 2019 – $1,300; 2020 – $1,200; 2021 –
$1,300; 2022 – $1,000; 2023 – $800; 2023 and after – $4,700. A portion of these commitments may ultimately be shared
with project partners. Total payments under the agreements were approximately $1,400 in 2018, $1,300 in 2017 and $1,300
in 2016.
As part of the implementation of ASU 2016-02 (Topic 842) effective January 1, 2019, the company will reclassify some
contracts, currently incorporated into the unconditional purchase obligations disclosure, as operating leases in first quarter
2019 results.
Environmental The company is subject to loss contingencies pursuant to laws, regulations, private claims and legal
proceedings related to environmental matters that are subject to legal settlements or that in the future may require the
company to take action to correct or ameliorate the effects on the environment of prior release of chemicals or petroleum
substances, including MTBE, by the company or other parties. Such contingencies may exist for various operating, closed
and divested sites, including, but not limited to, federal Superfund sites and analogous sites under state laws, refineries,
chemical plants, marketing facilities, crude oil fields, and mining sites.
Although the company has provided for known environmental obligations that are probable and reasonably estimable, it is
likely that the company will continue to incur additional liabilities. The amount of additional future costs are not fully
determinable due to such factors as the unknown magnitude of possible contamination, the unknown timing and extent of the
corrective actions that may be required, the determination of the company’s liability in proportion to other responsible
parties, and the extent to which such costs are recoverable from third parties. These future costs may be material to results of
86
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
86
143262_Financials.indd   86 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 79 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
operations in the period in which they are recognized, but the company does not expect these costs will have a material effect
on its consolidated financial position or liquidity.
Chevron’s environmental reserve as of December 31, 2018, was $1,327. Included in this balance was $258 related to
remediation activities at approximately 144 sites for which the company had been identified as a potentially responsible party
under the provisions of the federal Superfund law or analogous state laws which provide for joint and several liability for all
responsible parties. Any future actions by regulatory agencies to require Chevron to assume other potentially responsible
parties’ costs at designated hazardous waste sites are not expected to have a material effect on the company’s results of
operations, consolidated financial position or liquidity.
Of the remaining year-end 2018 environmental reserves balance of $1,069, $748 is related to the company’s U.S.
downstream operations, $24 to its international downstream operations, $296 to upstream operations and $1 to other
businesses. Liabilities at all sites were primarily associated with the company’s plans and activities to remediate soil or
groundwater contamination or both.
The company manages environmental liabilities under specific sets of regulatory requirements, which in the United States
include the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and various state and local regulations. No single remediation site at
year-end 2018 had a recorded liability that was material to the company’s results of operations, consolidated financial
position or liquidity.
Refer to Note 24 on page 88 for a discussion of the company’s asset retirement obligations.
Other Contingencies Governmental and other entities in California and other jurisdictions have filed legal proceedings
against fossil fuel producing companies, including Chevron, purporting to seek legal and equitable relief to address alleged
impacts of climate change. Further such proceedings are likely to be filed by other parties. The unprecedented legal theories
set forth in these proceedings entail the possibility of damages liability and injunctions against the production of all fossil
fuels that, while we believe remote, could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial
condition. Management believes that these proceedings are legally and factually meritless and detract from constructive
efforts to address the important policy issues presented by climate change, and will vigorously defend against such
proceedings.
Chevron receives claims from and submits claims to customers; trading partners; joint venture partners; U.S. federal, state
and local regulatory bodies; governments; contractors; insurers; suppliers; and individuals. The amounts of these claims,
individually and in the aggregate, may be significant and take lengthy periods to resolve, and may result in gains or losses in
future periods.
The company and its affiliates also continue to review and analyze their operations and may close, abandon, sell, exchange,
acquire or restructure assets to achieve operational or strategic benefits and to improve competitiveness and profitability.
These activities, individually or together, may result in significant gains or losses in future periods.
87
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
87
143262_Financials.indd   87 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 80 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
Note 24
Asset Retirement Obligations
The company records the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation (ARO) both as an asset and a liability
when there is a legal obligation associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset and the liability can be
reasonably estimated. The legal obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is unconditional, even though uncertainty
may exist about the timing and/or method of settlement that may be beyond the company’s control. This uncertainty about
the timing and/or method of settlement is factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists to
reasonably estimate fair value. Recognition of the ARO includes: (1) the present value of a liability and offsetting asset,
(2) the subsequent accretion of that liability and depreciation of the asset, and (3) the periodic review of the ARO liability
estimates and discount rates.
AROs are primarily recorded for the company’s crude oil and natural gas producing assets. No significant AROs associated
with any legal obligations to retire downstream long-lived assets have been recognized, as indeterminate settlement dates for
the asset retirements prevent estimation of the fair value of the associated ARO. The company performs periodic reviews of
its downstream long-lived assets for any changes in facts and circumstances that might require recognition of a retirement
obligation.
The following table indicates the changes to the company’s before-tax asset retirement obligations in 2018, 2017 and 2016:
2018 2017 2016
Balance at January 1 $ 14,214 $ 14,243 $ 15,642
Liabilities incurred 96 684 204
Liabilities settled (830) (1,721) (1,658)
Accretion expense 654 668 749
Revisions in estimated cash flows (84) 340 (694)
Balance at December 31 $ 14,050 $ 14,214 $ 14,243
In the table above, the amount associated with “Revisions in estimated cash flows” in 2018 reflects decreased cost estimates
to abandon wells, equipment and facilities. The long-term portion of the $14,050 balance at the end of 2018 was $12,957.
Note 25
Revenue
On January 1, 2018, Chevron adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , and its related
amendments using the modified retrospective transition method, which did not require the restatement of prior periods. The
adoption did not result in a material change in the company’s accounting or have a material effect on the company’s financial
position, including the measurement of revenue, the timing of revenue recognition and the recognition of contract assets,
liabilities and related costs.
The most significant change is the presentation of excise, value-added and similar taxes collected on behalf of third parties,
which are no longer presented within “Sales and other operating revenue” on the Consolidated Statement of Income starting
in 2018. These taxes, which totaled $7,861 in 2018, are now netted in “Taxes other than on income” on the Consolidated
Statement of Income. This change to presentation had no impact on earnings. These taxes totaled $7,189 and $6,905 in 2017
and 2016, respectively.
The company applied the optional exemption to not report any unfulfilled performance obligations related to contracts that
have terms of less than one year. The amount of future revenue for unfulfilled performance obligations under long-term
contracts with fixed components was insignificant for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Revenue from contracts with customers is presented in “Sales and other operating revenue” along with some activity that is
accounted for outside the scope of ASC 606, which is not material to this line, on the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Purchases and sales of inventory with the same counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of one another (including
buy/sell arrangements) are combined and recorded on a net basis and reported in “purchased crude oil and products” on the
Consolidated Statement of Income. Refer to Note 13 beginning on page 66 for additional information on the company’s
segmentation of revenue.
Receivables related to revenue from contracts with customers are included in “Accounts and notes receivable, net” on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, net of the allowance for doubtful accounts. The net balance of these receivables was $9,779 and
$10,046 at January 1, 2018 and December 31, 2018, respectively. Other items included in “Accounts and notes receivable,
net” represent amounts due from partners for their share of joint venture operating and project costs and amounts due from
88
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
88
143262_Financials.indd   88 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 81 ---
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts
others, primarily related to derivatives, leases, buy/sell arrangements and product exchanges, which are accounted for outside
the scope of ASC 606.
Contract assets and related costs are reflected in “Prepaid expenses and other current assets” and contract liabilities are
reflected in “Accrued liabilities” and “Deferred credits and other noncurrent obligations” on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Amounts for these items are not material to the company’s financial position.
Note 26
Other Financial Information
Earnings in 2018 included after-tax gains of approximately $630 relating to the sale of certain properties. Of this amount,
approximately $365 and $265 related to downstream and upstream, respectively. Earnings in 2017 included after-tax gains of
approximately $1,800 relating to the sale of certain properties, of which approximately $850 and $950 related to downstream
and upstream assets, respectively. Earnings in 2018 included after-tax charges of approximately $2,000 for impairments and
other asset write-offs related to upstream. Earnings in 2017 included after-tax charges of approximately $900 for
impairments and other asset write-offs related to upstream.
Other financial information is as follows:
Year ended December 31
2018 2017 2016
Total financing interest and debt costs $ 921 $ 902 $ 753
Less: Capitalized interest 173 595 552
Interest and debt expense $ 748 $ 307 $ 201
Research and development expenses $ 453 $ 433 $ 476
Excess of replacement cost over the carrying value of inventories (LIFO method) $ 5,134 $ 3,937 $ 2,942
LIFO profits (losses) on inventory drawdowns included in earnings $ 26 $ (5) $ (88)
Foreign currency effects* $ 611 $ (446) $ 58
* Includes $416, $(45) and $1 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, for the company’s share of equity affiliates’ foreign currency effects.
The company has $4,518 in goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, all of which is in the upstream segment and
primarily related to the 2005 acquisition of Unocal. The company tested this goodwill for impairment during 2018, and no
impairment was required.
89
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
89
143262_Financials.indd   89 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 82 ---
Five-Year Financial Summary
Unaudited
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Statement of Income Data
Revenues and Other Income
Total sales and other operating revenues * $ 158,902 $ 134,674 $ 110,215 $ 129,925 $ 200,494
Income from equity affiliates and other income 7,437 7,048 4,257 8,552 11,476
Total Revenues and Other Income 166,339 141,722 114,472 138,477 211,970
Total Costs and Other Deductions 145,764 132,501 116,632 133,635 180,768
Income Before Income Tax Expense (Benefit) 20,575 9,221 (2,160) 4,842 31,202
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) 5,715 (48) (1,729) 132 11,892
Net Income 14,860 9,269 (431) 4,710 19,310
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 36 74 66 123 69
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron Corporation $ 14,824 $ 9,195 $ (497) $ 4,587 $ 19,241
Per Share of Common Stock
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Chevron
– Basic $ 7.81 $ 4.88 $ (0.27) $ 2.46 $ 10.21
– Diluted $ 7.74 $ 4.85 $ (0.27) $ 2.45 $ 10.14
Cash Dividends Per Share $ 4.48 $ 4.32 $ 4.29 $ 4.28 $ 4.21
Balance Sheet Data (at December 31)
Current assets $ 34,021 $ 28,560 $ 29,619 $ 34,430 $ 41,161
Noncurrent assets 219,842 225,246 230,459 230,110 223,723
Total Assets 253,863 253,806 260,078 264,540 264,884
Short-term debt 5,726 5,192 10,840 4,927 3,790
Other current liabilities 21,445 22,545 20,945 20,540 27,322
Long-term debt 28,733 33,571 35,286 33,622 23,994
Other noncurrent liabilities 42,317 43,179 46,285 51,565 53,587
Total Liabilities 98,221 104,487 113,356 110,654 108,693
Total Chevron Corporation Stockholders’ Equity $ 154,554 $ 148,124 $ 145,556 $ 152,716 $ 155,028
Noncontrolling interests 1,088 1,195 1,166 1,170 1,163
Total Equity $ 155,642 $ 149,319 $ 146,722 $ 153,886 $ 156,191
* Includes excise, value-added and similar taxes: $— $ 7,189 $ 6,905 $ 7,359 $ 8,186
90
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
90
143262_Financials.r3.indd   90 3/19/19   12:35 AM

--- Page 83 ---
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited
In accordance with FASB and SEC disclosure requirements for oil and gas producing activities, this section provides
supplemental information on oil and gas exploration and producing activities of the company in seven separate tables. Tables
I through IV provide historical cost information pertaining to costs incurred in exploration, property acquisitions and
Table I - Costs Incurred in Exploration, Property Acquisitions and Development1
Consolidated Companies Affiliated Companies
Millions of dollars U.S.
Other
Americas Africa Asia
Australia/
Oceania Europe Total TCO Other
Year Ended December 31, 2018
Exploration
Wells $ 508 $ 74 $ 25 $ 55 $ — $ 14 $ 676 $ — $ —
Geological and geophysical 84 41 4 5 7 1 142 — —
Rentals and other 190 46 35 33 49 23 376 — —
Total exploration 782 161 64 93 56 38 1,194 — —
Property acquisitions2
Proved 160 — 7 117 — — 284 — —
Unproved 52 494 2 27 — — 575 — —
Total property acquisitions 212 494 9 144 — — 859 — —
Development3 6,245 856 711 1,095 845 278 10,030 4,883 200
Total Costs Incurred4 $ 7,239 $ 1,511 $ 784 $ 1,332 $ 901 $ 316 $ 12,083 $ 4,883 $ 200
Year Ended December 31, 2017
Exploration
Wells $ 479 $ 3 $ 1 $ 36 $ — $ 15 $ 534 $ — $ —
Geological and geophysical 93 46 4 3 33 5 184 — —
Rentals and other 157 32 52 60 46 128 475 — —
Total exploration 729 81 57 99 79 148 1,193 — —
Property acquisitions
2
Proved 64 — — 93 — — 157 — —
Unproved 77 — 40 18 1 — 136 — —
Total property acquisitions 141 — 40 111 1 — 293 — —
Development3 4,346 944 1,136 1,324 2,580 121 10,451 3,596 147
Total Costs Incurred4 $ 5,216 $ 1,025 $ 1,233 $ 1,534 $ 2,660 $ 269 $ 11,937 $ 3,596 $ 147
Year Ended December 31, 2016
Exploration
Wells $ 707 $ 51 $ 95 $ 31 $ 1 $ 1 $ 886 $ — $ —
Geological and geophysical 67 3 22 31 16 4 143 — —
Rentals and other 139 40 70 57 54 32 392 — —
Total exploration 913 94 187 119 71 37 1,421 — —
Property acquisitions
2
Proved 16 — — 52 — — 68 — —
Unproved 27 — — — — — 27 — —
Total property acquisitions 43 — — 52 — — 95 — —
Development3 3,814 1,631 2,014 1,866 3,733 550 13,608 2,211 262
Total Costs Incurred4 $ 4,770 $ 1,725 $ 2,201 $ 2,037 $ 3,804 $ 587 $ 15,124 $ 2,211 $ 262
1 Includes costs incurred whether capitalized or expensed. Excludes general support equipment expenditures. Includes capitalized amounts related to asset retirement obligations.
See Note 24, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” on page 88.
2 Does not include properties acquired in nonmonetary transactions.
3 Includes $114, $84 and $481 costs incurred on major capital projects prior to assignment of proved reserves for consolidated companies in 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively.
4 Reconciliation of consolidated and affiliated companies total cost incurred to Upstream capital and exploratory (C&E) expenditures - $ billions:
2018 2017 2016
Total cost incurred $ 17.2 $ 15.7 $ 17.6
Non-oil and gas activities 0.6 1.3 2.5 (Primarily; LNG and transportation activities.)
ARO (0.1) (0.6) —
Upstream C&E $ 17.7 $ 16.4 $ 20.1 Reference page 39 Upstream total
91
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
91
143262_Financials.indd   91 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 84 ---
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited
development; capitalized costs; and results of operations. Tables V through VII present information on the company’s
estimated net proved reserve quantities, standardized measure of estimated discounted future net cash flows related to proved
reserves and changes in estimated discounted future net cash flows. The amounts for consolidated companies are organized
by geographic areas including the United States, Other Americas, Africa, Asia, Australia/Oceania and Europe. Amounts for
affiliated companies include Chevron’s equity interests in Tengizchevroil (TCO) in the Republic of Kazakhstan and in other
affiliates, principally in Venezuela and Angola. Refer to Note 14, beginning on page 69, for a discussion of the company’s
major equity affiliates.
Table II - Capitalized Costs Related to Oil and Gas Producing Activities
Consolidated Companies Affiliated Companies
Millions of dollars U.S.
Other
Americas Africa Asia
Australia/
Oceania Europe Total TCO Other
At December 31, 2018
Unproved properties $ 4,687 $ 2,463 $ 201 $ 1,299 $ 1,986 $ — $ 10,636 $ 108 $ —
Proved properties and related
producing assets 75,013 21,796 44,876 57,168 22,047 12,634 233,534 9,892 4,336
Support equipment 2,216 317 1,096 2,149 17,712 124 23,614 1,858 —
Deferred exploratory wells 782 160 405 632 1,323 261 3,563 — —
Other uncompleted projects 4,730 3,704 1,744 1,292 1,462 300 13,232 11,906 605
Gross Capitalized Costs 87,428 28,440 48,322 62,540 44,530 13,319 284,579 23,764 4,941
Unproved properties valuation 820 694 164 623 107 — 2,408 61 —
Proved producing properties –
Depreciation and depletion 45,712 12,984 31,102 43,735 4,631 10,014 148,178 5,289 1,730
Support equipment depreciation 1,466 220 738 1,674 1,531 119 5,748 947 —
Accumulated provisions 47,998 13,898 32,004 46,032 6,269 10,133 156,334 6,297 1,730
Net Capitalized Costs $ 39,430 $ 14,542 $ 16,318 $ 16,508 $ 38,261 $ 3,186 $ 128,245 $ 17,467 $ 3,211
At December 31, 2017
Unproved properties $ 6,466 $ 2,314 $ 240 $ 1,420 $ 1,986 $ 23 $ 12,449 $ 108 $ —
Proved properties and related
producing assets 66,390 20,696 43,656 55,616 21,544 10,697 218,599 8,956 4,346
Support equipment 2,248 337 1,104 2,050 15,599 132 21,470 1,731 —
Deferred exploratory wells 969 181 406 562 1,323 261 3,702 — —
Other uncompleted projects 8,333 3,624 2,528 1,889 3,238 1,966 21,578 8,098 457
Gross Capitalized Costs 84,406 27,152 47,934 61,537 43,690 13,079 277,798 18,893 4,803
Unproved properties valuation 977 855 162 535 107 23 2,659 58 —
Proved producing properties –
Depreciation and depletion 43,286 11,795 27,916 40,234 3,193 9,306 135,730 4,690 1,468
Support equipment depreciation 1,359 227 712 1,584 870 123 4,875 846 —
Accumulated provisions 45,622 12,877 28,790 42,353 4,170 9,452 143,264 5,594 1,468
Net Capitalized Costs $ 38,784 $ 14,275 $ 19,144 $ 19,184 $ 39,520 $ 3,627 $ 134,534 $ 13,299 $ 3,335
At December 31, 2016
Unproved properties $ 9,052 $ 3,063 $ 263 $ 1,273 $ 1,986 $ 23 $ 15,660 $ 108 $ —
Proved properties and related
producing assets 69,924 18,269 38,903 56,070 11,642 10,738 205,546 8,484 3,898
Support equipment 2,249 357 1,083 2,036 8,598 131 14,454 1,632 —
Deferred exploratory wells 750 190 415 602 1,322 261 3,540 — —
Other uncompleted projects 7,018 5,900 6,152 2,743 17,559 1,804 41,176 5,075 517
Gross Capitalized Costs 88,993 27,779 46,816 62,724 41,107 12,957 280,376 15,299 4,415
Unproved properties valuation 1,673 903 222 483 107 23 3,411 55 —
Proved producing properties –
Depreciation and depletion 45,820 11,635 24,463 38,757 2,300 8,643 131,618 4,148 1,170
Support equipment depreciation 1,165 226 657 1,502 571 118 4,239 750 —
Accumulated provisions 48,658 12,764 25,342 40,742 2,978 8,784 139,268 4,953 1,170
Net Capitalized Costs $ 40,335 $ 15,015 $ 21,474 $ 21,982 $ 38,129 $ 4,173 $ 141,108 $ 10,346 $ 3,245
92
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
92
143262_Financials.indd   92 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 85 ---
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited
Table III - Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities1
The company’s results of operations from oil and gas producing activities for the years 2018, 2017 and 2016 are shown in the
following table. Net income (loss) from exploration and production activities as reported on page 67 reflects income taxes
computed on an effective rate basis.
Income taxes in Table III are based on statutory tax rates, reflecting allowable deductions and tax credits. Interest income and
expense are excluded from the results reported in Table III and from the net income amounts on page 67.
Consolidated Companies Affiliated Companies
Millions of dollars U.S.
Other
Americas Africa Asia
Australia/
Oceania Europe Total TCO Other
Year Ended December 31, 2018
Revenues from net production
Sales $ 2,162 $ 1,008 $ 829 $ 5,880 $ 4,229 $ 619 $ 14,727 $ 5,987 $ 1,369
Transfers 11,645 1,808 7,829 3,206 3,413 1,071 28,972 — —
Total 13,807 2,816 8,658 9,086 7,642 1,690 43,699 5,987 1,369
Production expenses excluding taxes (3,203) (1,009) (1,564) (2,653) (557) (424) (9,410) (447) (295)
Taxes other than on income (540) (70) (112) (22) (250) (2) (996) 160 (210)
Proved producing properties:
Depreciation and depletion (4,583) (998) (3,368) (3,714) (2,103) (411) (15,177) (703) (306)
Accretion expense2 (186) (26) (149) (146) (50) (52) (609) (4) (3)
Exploration expenses (777) (191) (52) (58) (56) (41) (1,175) — (6)
Unproved properties valuation (516) (42) (3) (135) — — (696) — —
Other income (expense)3 336 4 97 (33) 31 (161) 274 (59) (280)
Results before income taxes 4,338 484 3,507 2,325 4,657 599 15,910 4,934 269
Income tax (expense) benefit (886) (400) (2,131) (1,088) (1,415) (233) (6,153) (1,480) 341
Results of Producing Operations $ 3,452 $ 84 $ 1,376 $ 1,237 $ 3,242 $ 366 $ 9,757 $ 3,454 $ 610
Year Ended December 31, 2017
Revenues from net production
Sales $ 1,548 $ 999 $ 487 $ 5,381 $ 2,061 $ 372 $ 10,848 $ 4,509 $ 1,218
Transfers 7,610 1,371 6,533 2,966 937 1,246 20,663 — —
Total 9,158 2,370 7,020 8,347 2,998 1,618 31,511 4,509 1,218
Production expenses excluding taxes (3,160) (1,021) (1,521) (2,670) (304) (415) (9,091) (425) (306)
Taxes other than on income (403) (85) (115) (11) (183) (3) (800) 118 (121)
Proved producing properties:
Depreciation and depletion (5,092) (1,046) (3,531) (4,134) (1,176) (668) (15,647) (638) (365)
Accretion expense
2 (212) (23) (144) (155) (40) (60) (634) (3) (16)
Exploration expenses (299) (126) (65) (108) (85) (149) (832) — —
Unproved properties valuation (204) (259) (3) (52) — — (518) — —
Other income (expense)3 580 (87) 259 273 170 (170) 1,025 (104) (14)
Results before income taxes 368 (277) 1,900 1,490 1,380 153 5,014 3,457 396
Income tax (expense) benefit (88) (64) (1,199) (616) (413) (174) (2,554) (1,037) 20
Results of Producing Operations $ 280 $ (341) $ 701 $ 874 $ 967 $ (21) $ 2,460 $ 2,420 $ 416
1 The value of owned production consumed in operations as fuel has been eliminated from revenues and production expenses, and the related volumes have been deducted from
net production in calculating the unit average sales price and production cost. This has no effect on the results of producing operations.
2 Represents accretion of ARO liability. Refer to Note 24, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” on page 88.
3 Includes foreign currency gains and losses, gains and losses on property dispositions and other miscellaneous income and expenses.
93
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
93
143262_Financials.indd   93 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 86 ---
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited
Table III - Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities1, continued
Consolidated Companies Affiliated Companies
Millions of dollars U.S.
Other
Americas Africa Asia
Australia/
Oceania Europe Total TCO Other
Year Ended December 31, 2016
Revenues from net production
Sales $ 1,178 $ 1,038 $ 238 $ 5,347 $ 733 $ 436 $ 8,970 $ 3,416 $ 695
Transfers 5,895 1,134 4,896 2,839 478 727 15,969 — —
Total 7,073 2,172 5,134 8,186 1,211 1,163 24,939 3,416 695
Production expenses excluding taxes (3,634) (1,120) (1,806) (2,942) (250) (389) (10,141) (451) (359)
Taxes other than on income (341) (90) (104) (10) (154) (2) (701) (494) (67)
Proved producing properties:
Depreciation and depletion (5,913) (2,729) (2,612) (3,848) (425) (483) (16,010) (524) (196)
Accretion expense
2 (265) (26) (134) (181) (30) (66) (702) (3) (12)
Exploration expenses (399) (132) (255) (109) (70) (38) (1,003) — —
Unproved properties valuation (342) (31) (13) (44) — — (430) — —
Other income (expense)3 681 (103) (141) (39) 4 431 833 (113) (206)
Results before income taxes (3,140) (2,059) 69 1,013 286 616 (3,215) 1,831 (145)
Income tax (expense) benefits 1,080 139 (267) (386) (94) (57) 415 (549) 39
Results of Producing Operations $ (2,060) $ (1,920) $ (198) $ 627 $ 192 $ 559 $ (2,800) $ 1,282 $ (106)
1 The value of owned production consumed in operations as fuel has been eliminated from revenues and production expenses, and the related volumes have been deducted from
net production in calculating the unit average sales price and production cost. This has no effect on the results of producing operations.
2 Represents accretion of ARO liability. Refer to Note 24, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” on page 88.
3 Includes foreign currency gains and losses, gains and losses on property dispositions, and other miscellaneous income and expenses.
Table IV - Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unit Prices and Costs1
Consolidated Companies Affiliated Companies
U.S.
Other
Americas Africa Asia
Australia/
Oceania Europe Total TCO Other
Year Ended December 31, 2018
Average sales prices
Liquids, per barrel $ 58.17 $ 58.27 $ 69.75 $ 63.55 $ 68.78 $ 66.31 $ 62.45 $ 56.20 $ 56.41
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet 1.86 2.62 2.55 4.48 8.78 7.54 5.54 0.77 3.19
Average production costs, per barrel 2 11.18 17.32 11.29 12.15 3.95 14.21 10.78 3.59 9.29
Year Ended December 31, 2017
Average sales prices
Liquids, per barrel $ 44.53 $ 51.26 $ 52.12 $ 48.45 $ 52.32 $ 51.15 $ 48.61 $ 41.47 $ 48.68
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet 2.11 3.15 1.77 4.12 5.75 5.55 4.07 0.88 2.38
Average production costs, per barrel
2 12.83 18.64 10.88 11.30 3.60 11.95 11.41 3.34 8.51
Year Ended December 31, 2016
Average sales prices
Liquids, per barrel $ 35.00 $ 43.89 $ 41.42 $ 37.55 $ 45.32 $ 39.64 $ 38.30 $ 31.83 $ 31.90
Natural gas, per thousand cubic feet 1.58 3.04 1.60 4.19 4.29 4.77 3.45 1.34 2.24
Average production costs, per barrel
2 14.56 18.79 13.80 11.34 5.97 12.84 13.15 3.67 15.01
1 The value of owned production consumed in operations as fuel has been eliminated from revenues and production expenses, and the related volumes have been deducted from
net production in calculating the unit average sales price and production cost. This has no effect on the results of producing operations.
2 Natural gas converted to oil-equivalent gas (OEG) barrels at a rate of 6 MCF = 1 OEG barrel.
94
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
94
143262_Financials.indd   94 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 87 ---
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited
Table V Reserve Quantity Information
Summary of Net Oil and Gas Reserves
2018 2017 2016
Liquids in Millions of Barrels
Natural Gas in Billions of Cubic Feet
Crude Oil
Condensate
NGLs
Synthetic
Oil
Natural
Gas
Crude Oil
Condensate
NGLs
Synthetic
Oil
Natural
Gas
Crude Oil
Condensate
NGLs
Synthetic
Oil
Natural
Gas
Proved Developed
Consolidated Companies
U.S. 1,240 — 2,396 1,031 — 2,096 992 — 2,102
Other Americas 159 545 393 101 543 398 92 601 533
Africa 628 — 1,316 664 — 1,276 640 — 1,039
Asia 470 — 4,021 529 — 4,463 621 — 4,962
Australia/Oceania 132 — 10,084 126 — 9,907 124 — 9,176
Europe 84 — 205 83 — 215 77 — 213
Total Consolidated 2,713 545 18,415 2,534 543 18,355 2,546 601 18,025
Affiliated Companies
TCO 700 — 1,179 787 — 1,300 920 — 1,402
Other 76 55 308 84 66 270 92 62 319
Total Consolidated and Affiliated Companies 3,489 600 19,902 3,405 609 19,925 3,558 663 19,746
Proved Undeveloped
Consolidated Companies
U.S. 1,162 — 4,313 885 — 3,084 420 — 1,574
Other Americas 204 — 470 196 — 397 131 3 114
Africa 148 — 1,499 175 — 1,630 236 — 1,788
Asia 109 — 289 102 — 310 99 — 571
Australia/Oceania 29 — 3,647 33 — 3,652 34 — 3,339
Europe 65 — 100 62 — 86 61 — 21
Total Consolidated 1,717 — 10,318 1,453 — 9,159 981 3 7,407
Affiliated Companies
TCO 905 — 755 962 — 883 989 — 840
Other 7 72 601 20 93 769 26 108 767
Total Consolidated and Affiliated Companies 2,629 72 11,674 2,435 93 10,811 1,996 111 9,014
Total Proved Reserves 6,118 672 31,576 5,840 702 30,736 5,554 774 28,760
Reserves Governance The company has adopted a comprehensive reserves and resource classification system modeled after
a system developed and approved by the Society of Petroleum Engineers, the World Petroleum Congress and the American
Association of Petroleum Geologists. The company classifies recoverable hydrocarbons into six categories based on their
status at the time of reporting – three deemed commercial and three potentially recoverable. Within the commercial
classification are proved reserves and two categories of unproved reserves: probable and possible. The potentially
recoverable categories are also referred to as contingent resources. For reserves estimates to be classified as proved, they
must meet all SEC and company standards.
Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities that geoscience and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable
certainty to be economically producible in the future from known reservoirs under existing economic conditions, operating
methods and government regulations. Net proved reserves exclude royalties and interests owned by others and reflect
contractual arrangements and royalty obligations in effect at the time of the estimate.
Proved reserves are classified as either developed or undeveloped. Proved developed reserves are the quantities expected to
be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Proved undeveloped reserves are the
quantities expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major
expenditure is required for recompletion.
Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data, estimates of reserves are subject to change as
additional information becomes available.
Proved reserves are estimated by company asset teams composed of earth scientists and engineers. As part of the internal
control process related to reserves estimation, the company maintains a Reserves Advisory Committee (RAC) that is chaired
by the Manager of Global Reserves, an organization that is separate from the Upstream operating organization. The Manager
of Global Reserves has more than 30 years’ experience working in the oil and gas industry and holds both undergraduate and
95
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
95
143262_Financials.indd   95 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 88 ---
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited
graduate degrees in geoscience. His experience includes various technical and management roles in providing reserve and
resource estimates in support of major capital and exploration projects, and more than 10 years of overseeing oil and gas
reserves processes. He has been named a Distinguished Lecturer by the American Association of Petroleum Geologists and is
an active member of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, the SEPM Society of Sedimentary Geologists and
the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
All RAC members are degreed professionals, each with more than 10 years of experience in various aspects of reserves
estimation relating to reservoir engineering, petroleum engineering, earth science or finance. The members are
knowledgeable in SEC guidelines for proved reserves classification and receive annual training on the preparation of reserves
estimates.
The RAC has the following primary responsibilities: establish the policies and processes used within the operating units to
estimate reserves; provide independent reviews and oversight of the business units’ recommended reserves estimates and
changes; confirm that proved reserves are recognized in accordance with SEC guidelines; determine that reserve volumes are
calculated using consistent and appropriate standards, procedures and technology; and maintain the Chevron Corporation
Reserves Manual, which provides standardized procedures used corporatewide for classifying and reporting hydrocarbon
reserves.
During the year, the RAC is represented in meetings with each of the company’s upstream business units to review and
discuss reserve changes recommended by the various asset teams. Major changes are also reviewed with the company’s
senior leadership team including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. The company’s annual reserve
activity is also reviewed with the Board of Directors. If major changes to reserves were to occur between the annual reviews,
those matters would also be discussed with the Board.
RAC subteams also conduct in-depth reviews during the year of many of the fields that have large proved reserves quantities.
These reviews include an examination of the proved-reserve records and documentation of their compliance with the
Chevron Corporation Reserves Manual.
Technologies Used in Establishing Proved Reserves Additions In 2018, additions to Chevron’s proved reserves were based
on a wide range of geologic and engineering technologies. Information generated from wells, such as well logs, wire line
sampling, production and pressure testing, fluid analysis, and core analysis, was integrated with seismic data, regional
geologic studies, and information from analogous reservoirs to provide “reasonably certain” proved reserves estimates. Both
proprietary and commercially available analytic tools, including reservoir simulation, geologic modeling and seismic
processing, have been used in the interpretation of the subsurface data. These technologies have been utilized extensively by
the company in the past, and the company believes that they provide a high degree of confidence in establishing reliable and
consistent reserves estimates.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves At the end of 2018, proved undeveloped reserves totaled 4.6 billion barrels of oil-equivalent
(BOE), an increase of 317 million BOE from year-end 2017. The increase was due to 717 million BOE in extensions and
discoveries, 69 million BOE in acquisitions, 58 million BOE in revisions and 6 million BOE in improved recovery, partially
offset by the transfer of 531 million BOE to proved developed and 2 million BOE in sales. A major portion of this reserve
increase is attributed to the company’s activities in the Midland and Delaware basins.
During 2018, investments totaling approximately $10 billion in oil and gas producing activities and about $0.1 billion in
non-oil and gas producing activities were expended to advance the development of proved undeveloped reserves. In Asia,
expenditures during the year totaled approximately $4.8 billion, primarily related to development projects of the TCO
affiliate in Kazakhstan. The United States accounted for about $3.4 billion related primarily to various development activities
in the Gulf of Mexico and the Midland and Delaware basins. In Africa, about $0.7 billion was expended on various offshore
development and natural gas projects in Nigeria, Angola and Republic of Congo. Development activities in Canada and
Argentina were primarily responsible for about $0.9 billion of expenditures in Other Americas.
Reserves that remain proved undeveloped for five or more years are a result of several factors that affect optimal project
development and execution, such as the complex nature of the development project in adverse and remote locations, physical
limitations of infrastructure or plant capacities that dictate project timing, compression projects that are pending reservoir
pressure declines, and contractual limitations that dictate production levels.
At year-end 2018, the company held approximately 2.1 billion BOE of proved undeveloped reserves that have remained
undeveloped for five years or more. The majority of these reserves are in three locations where the company has a proven track
record of developing major projects. In Australia, approximately 600 million BOE have remained undeveloped for five years or
more related to the Gorgon and Wheatstone projects. The company completed construction of liquefaction and other facilities to
develop this natural gas. Further field development to convert the remaining proved undeveloped reserves is scheduled to
96
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
96
143262_Financials.indd   96 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 89 ---
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited
occur in line with operating constraints and infrastructure optimization. In Africa, approximately 300 million BOE have
remained undeveloped for five years or more, primarily due to facility constraints at various fields and infrastructure
associated with the Escravos gas projects in Nigeria. Affiliates account for about 1.2 billion BOE of proved undeveloped
reserves with about 900 million BOE that have remained undeveloped for five years or more, with the majority related to the
TCO affiliate in Kazakhstan. At TCO, further field development to convert the remaining proved undeveloped reserves is
scheduled to occur in line with reservoir depletion and facility constraints.
Annually, the company assesses whether any changes have occurred in facts or circumstances, such as changes to
development plans, regulations or government policies, that would warrant a revision to reserve estimates. In 2018, increases
in commodity prices positively impacted the economic limits of oil and gas properties, resulting in proved reserve increases,
and negatively impacted proved reserves due to entitlement effects. The year-end reserves volumes have been updated for
these circumstances and significant changes have been discussed in the appropriate reserves sections. For 2018, this
assessment did not result in any material changes in reserves classified as proved undeveloped. Over the past three years, the
ratio of proved undeveloped reserves to total proved reserves has ranged between 32 percent and 38 percent.
Proved Reserve Quantities For the three years ending December 31, 2018, the pattern of net reserve changes shown in the
following tables are not necessarily indicative of future trends. Apart from acquisitions, the company’s ability to add proved
reserves can be affected by events and circumstances that are outside the company’s control, such as delays in government
permitting, partner approvals of development plans, changes in oil and gas prices, OPEC constraints, geopolitical
uncertainties, and civil unrest.
At December 31, 2018, proved reserves for the company were 12.1 billion BOE. The company’s estimated net proved
reserves of liquids including crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and synthetic oil for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 are
shown in the table on page 98. The company’s estimated net proved reserves of natural gas are shown on page 99.
Noteworthy changes in liquids proved reserves for 2016 through 2018 are discussed below and shown in the table on the
following page:
Revisions In 2016, improved field performance at various Gulf of Mexico fields, including Jack/St Malo, and in the San
Joaquin Valley were primarily responsible for the 109 million barrel increase in the United States. Entitlement effects were
mainly responsible for the 64 million barrel increase in the TCO affiliate in Kazakhstan. In Asia, entitlement effects, drilling
and improved performance across numerous assets resulted in the 50 million barrel increase.
In 2017, improved field performance at various Gulf of Mexico fields, including Jack/St Malo and Tahiti, and in the Midland
and Delaware basins were primarily responsible for the 280 million barrel increase in the United States. Improved field
performance at various fields, including Agbami and Sonam in Nigeria, were responsible for the 79 million barrel increase in
Africa. Synthetic oil reserves in Canada decreased by 42 million barrels, primarily due to entitlement effects. In the TCO
affiliate in Kazakhstan, entitlement effects were mainly responsible for the 53 million barrel decrease.
In 2018, improved field performance at various Gulf of Mexico fields and in the Midland and Delaware basins were
primarily responsible for the 155 million barrel increase in the United States. Improved field performance at various fields,
including Agbami in Nigeria and Moho-Bilondo in the Republic of Congo, were responsible for the 68 million barrel
increase in Africa. Reserves in Other Americas increased by 60 million barrels, primarily due to improved field performance
at the Hebron field in Canada. In Asia, improved performance across numerous assets resulted in the 37 million barrel
increase. In the TCO affiliate in Kazakhstan, entitlement effects were mainly responsible for the 39 million barrel decrease.
Improved Recovery In 2016, improved recovery increased reserves by 293 million barrels, primarily due to the Future
Growth Project in the TCO affiliate in Kazakhstan.
Extensions and Discoveries In 2016, extensions and discoveries in the Midland and Delaware basins were primarily
responsible for the 131 million barrel increase in the United States.
In 2017, extensions and discoveries in the Midland and Delaware basins and the Gulf of Mexico were primarily responsible
for the 458 million barrel increase in the United States. Extensions and discoveries in the Duvernay Shale in Canada were
primarily responsible for the 74 million barrel increase in Other Americas.
In 2018, extensions and discoveries in the Midland and Delaware basins were primarily responsible for the 532 million barrel
increase in the United States. Extensions and discoveries in the Duvernay Shale in Canada and Loma Campana in Argentina
were primarily responsible for the 36 million barrel increase in Other Americas.
97
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
97
143262_Financials.indd   97 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 90 ---
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited
Purchases In 2017, purchases of 33 million barrels in Asia were due to contract extension in the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli
fields in Azerbaijan.
In 2018, purchases of 50 million barrels in the United States were primarily in the Midland and Delaware basins.
Sales In 2016, sales of 34 million barrels in the United States were primarily in the Gulf of Mexico shelf.
In 2017, sales of 57 million barrels in the United States were primarily in the Gulf of Mexico shelf and in the Midland and
Delaware basins.
In 2018, sales of 32 million barrels in the United States were primarily in the San Joaquin Valley.
Net Proved Reserves of Crude Oil, Condensate, Natural Gas Liquids and Synthetic Oil
Consolidated Companies Affiliated Companies
Total
Consolidated
Millions of barrels U.S.
Other
Americas1 Africa Asia
Australia/
Oceania Europe
Synthetic
Oil2 Total TCO
Synthetic
Oil Other 3
and Affiliated
Companies
Reserves at January 1, 2016 1,386 236 957 790 153 143 597 4,262 1,676 193 131 6,262
Changes attributable to:
Revisions 109 (20) 22 50 12 16 26 215 64 (12) (5) 262
Improved recovery 5 — 11 2 — — — 18 273 — 2 293
Extensions and discoveries 131 23 9 1 — — — 164 — — — 164
Purchases — 10 — — — — — 10 — — — 10
Sales (34) — — — — — — (34) — — — (34)
Production (185) (26) (123) (123) (7) (21) (19) (504) (104) (11) (10) (629)
Reserves at December 31, 2016 4 1,412 223 876 720 158 138 604 4,131 1,909 170 118 6,328
Changes attributable to:
Revisions 280 25 79 (17) 11 30 (42) 366 (53) — (5) 308
Improved recovery 9 — 7 1 — — — 17 — — 3 20
Extensions and discoveries 458 74 4 — — — — 536 — — — 536
Purchases 4 — 2 33 — — — 39 — — — 39
Sales (57) (1) — (2) — — — (60) — — — (60)
Production (190) (24) (129) (104) (10) (23) (19) (499) (107) (11) (12) (629)
Reserves at December 31, 2017 4 1,916 297 839 631 159 145 543 4,530 1,749 159 104 6,542
Changes attributable to:
Revisions 155 60 68 37 17 20 21 378 (39) (23) (10) 306
Improved recovery 5 — — 1 — 4 — 10 — — — 10
Extensions and discoveries 532 36 1 — — — — 569 — — — 569
Purchases 50 — — — — — — 50 — — — 50
Sales (32) — (5) — — — — (37) — — — (37)
Production (224) (30) (127) (90) (15) (20) (19) (525) (105) (9) (11) (650)
Reserves at December 31, 2018 4 2,402 363 776 579 161 149 545 4,975 1,605 127 83 6,790
1 Ending reserve balances in North America were 291, 234 and 169 and in South America were 72, 63 and 54 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
2 Reserves associated with Canada.
3 Ending reserve balances in Africa were 19, 26 and 31 and in South America were 64, 78 and 87 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
4 Included are year-end reserve quantities related to production-sharing contracts (PSC) (refer to glossary of energy and financial terms for the definition of a PSC). PSC-related
reserve quantities are 12 percent, 15 percent and 19 percent for consolidated companies for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
98
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
98
143262_Financials.indd   98 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 91 ---
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited
Net Proved Reserves of Natural Gas
Consolidated Companies
Affiliated
Companies Total
Consolidated
and Affiliated
CompaniesBillions of cubic feet (BCF) U.S.
Other
Americas1 Africa Asia
Australia/
Oceania Europe Total TCO Other 2
Reserves at January 1, 2016 4,242 714 2,937 5,956 11,873 224 25,946 2,268 1,223 29,437
Changes attributable to:
Revisions (6) (24) (29) 443 853 72 1,309 111 (107) 1,313
Improved recovery 2 — — — — — 2 — — 2
Extensions and discoveries 388 73 — 4 14 — 479 — — 479
Purchases 4 3 — — — — 7 — — 7
Sales (544) (10) — — — — (554) — — (554)
Production3 (410) (109) (81) (870) (225) (62) (1,757) (137) (30) (1,924)
Reserves at December 31, 2016 4 3,676 647 2,827 5,533 12,515 234 25,432 2,242 1,086 28,760
Changes attributable to:
Revisions 670 39 184 65 1,545 143 2,646 87 48 2,781
Improved recovery 3 — — — — — 3 — — 3
Extensions and discoveries 1,361 319 — 2 — — 1,682 — — 1,682
Purchases 1 — 2 46 — — 49 — — 49
Sales (177) (129) — (31) — — (337) — — (337)
Production3 (354) (81) (107) (842) (501) (76) (1,961) (146) (95) (2,202)
Reserves at December 31, 2017 4 5,180 795 2,906 4,773 13,559 301 27,514 2,183 1,039 30,736
Changes attributable to:
Revisions 258 (3) 25 347 1,012 68 1,707 (108) (38) 1,561
Improved recovery 2 2 —— 1 — 5 — — 5
Extensions and discoveries 1,627 138 — 5 — 1 1,771 — 3 1,774
Purchases 144 — 1 — — — 145 — — 145
Sales (125) — (5) — — — (130) — — (130)
Production3 (377) (69) (112) (815) (841) (65) (2,279) (141) (95) (2,515)
Reserves at December 31, 2018 4 6,709 863 2,815 4,310 13,731 305 28,733 1,934 909 31,576
1 Ending reserve balances in North America and South America were 582, 478, 172 and 281, 317, 475 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
2 Ending reserve balances in Africa and South America were 799, 899, 939 and 110, 140, 147 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
3 Total “as sold” volumes are 2,289, 1,995 and 1,744 for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
4 Includes reserve quantities related to production-sharing contracts (PSC) (refer to glossary of energy and financial terms for the definition of a PSC). PSC-related reserve
quantities are 10 percent, 12 percent and 15 percent for consolidated companies for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Noteworthy changes in natural gas proved reserves for 2016 through 2018 are discussed below and shown in the table above:
Revisions In 2016, development activities primarily at Wheatstone were responsible for the 853 BCF increase in Australia.
Net revisions of 443 BCF in Asia were primarily due to improved field performance in China and Thailand.
In 2017, reservoir performance and new seismic data in the greater Gorgon area were primarily responsible for the 1.5 TCF
increase in Australia. Improved performance in the Midland and Delaware basins were primarily responsible for the 670
BCF increase in the United States. The Sonam Field in Nigeria was primarily responsible for the 184 BCF increase in Africa.
In 2018, reservoir performance, well test and surveillance data at Wheatstone and the greater Gorgon area were responsible
for the 1.0 TCF increase in Australia. The Bibiyana Field in Bangladesh and the Pattani Field in Thailand were primarily
responsible for the 347 BCF increase in Asia. Improved performance in the Midland and Delaware basins were primarily
responsible for the 258 BCF increase in the United States.
Extensions and Discoveries In 2016, extensions and discoveries of 388 BCF in the United States were primarily in the
Appalachian region and the Midland and Delaware basins.
In 2017, extensions and discoveries of 1.4 TCF in the United States were primarily in the Appalachian region and the
Midland and Delaware basins. Extensions and discoveries in the Duvernay Shale in Canada were primarily responsible for
the 319 BCF increase in Other Americas.
In 2018, extensions and discoveries of 1.6 TCF in the United States were primarily in the Appalachian region and the
Midland and Delaware basins.
99
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
99
143262_Financials.indd   99 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 92 ---
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited
Sales In 2016, sales of 544 BCF in the United States were primarily in the Gulf of Mexico shelf, Michigan and the
midcontinent region.
In 2017, sales of 177 BCF in the United States were primarily from the Midland and Delaware basins. Sale of the company’s
interests in Trinidad and Tobago was primarily responsible for the 129 BCF decrease in Other Americas.
Table VI - Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Related to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is calculated in accordance with SEC and FASB requirements.
This includes using the average of first-day-of-the-month oil and gas prices for the 12-month period prior to the end of the
reporting period, estimated future development and production costs assuming the continuation of existing economic
conditions, estimated costs for asset retirement obligations (includes costs to retire existing wells and facilities in addition to
those future wells and facilities necessary to produce proved undeveloped reserves), and estimated future income taxes based
on appropriate statutory tax rates. Discounted future net cash flows are calculated using 10 percent mid-period discount
factors. Estimates of proved-reserve quantities are imprecise and change over time as new information becomes available.
Probable and possible reserves, which may become proved in the future, are excluded from the calculations. The valuation
requires assumptions as to the timing and amount of future development and production costs. The calculations are made as
of December 31 each year and do not represent management’s estimate of the company’s future cash flows or value of its oil
and gas reserves. In the following table, the caption “Standardized Measure Net Cash Flows” refers to the standardized
measure of discounted future net cash flows.
Consolidated Companies
Affiliated
Companies Total
Consolidated
and Affiliated
CompaniesMillions of dollars U.S.
Other
Americas Africa Asia
Australia/
Oceania Europe Total TCO Other
At December 31, 2018
Future cash inflows from production $ 132,512 $ 52,470 $ 56,856 $ 54,012 $ 109,116 $ 11,959 $ 416,925 $ 100,518 $ 16,928 $ 534,371
Future production costs (34,679) (20,691) (18,850) (17,359) (16,296) (6,609) (114,484) (24,580) (4,665) (143,729)
Future development costs (17,322) (5,106) (4,112) (5,494) (7,757) (1,393) (41,184) (14,069) (1,692) (56,945)
Future income taxes (17,369) (7,553) (23,593) (14,514) (25,519) (1,676) (90,224) (18,561) (4,496) (113,281)
Undiscounted future net cash flows 63,142 19,120 10,301 16,645 59,544 2,281 171,033 43,308 6,075 220,416
10 percent midyear annual discount
for timing of estimated cash flows (29,103) (11,136) (2,646) (4,822) (28,276) (419) (76,402) (22,025) (2,662) (101,089)
Standardized Measure
Net Cash Flows $ 34,039 $ 7,984 $ 7,655 $ 11,823 $ 31,268 $ 1,862 $ 94,631 $ 21,283 $ 3,413 $ 119,327
At December 31, 2017
Future cash inflows from production $ 94,086 $ 43,175 $ 47,828 $ 47,809 $ 77,557 $ 8,800 $ 319,255 $ 80,090 $ 13,632 $ 412,977
Future production costs (29,049) (20,044) (18,124) (18,640) (12,315) (6,345) (104,517) (22,050) (4,635) (131,202)
Future development costs (10,849) (5,102) (3,808) (4,755) (6,682) (1,114) (32,310) (17,564) (1,760) (51,634)
Future income taxes (10,803) (5,158) (17,845) (10,901) (17,568) (615) (62,890) (12,143) (3,250) (78,283)
Undiscounted future net cash flows 43,385 12,871 8,051 13,513 40,992 726 119,538 28,333 3,987 151,858
10 percent midyear annual discount
for timing of estimated cash flows (19,781) (8,483) (2,058) (3,846) (19,730) 207 (53,691) (16,310) (1,844) (71,845)
Standardized Measure
Net Cash Flows $ 23,604 $ 4,388 $ 5,993 $ 9,667 $ 21,262 $ 933 $ 65,847 $ 12,023 $ 2,143 $ 80,013
At December 31, 2016
Future cash inflows from production $ 53,777 $ 33,520 $ 39,072 $ 44,526 $ 63,781 $ 6,338 $ 241,014 $ 66,506 $ 11,244 $ 318,764
Future production costs (26,530) (20,413) (19,749) (19,815) (11,058) (5,500) (103,065) (13,610) (5,254) (121,929)
Future development costs (7,830) (4,277) (4,186) (4,603) (7,804) (977) (29,677) (20,855) (2,192) (52,724)
Future income taxes (3,454) (2,664) (9,684) (8,503) (13,476) 69 (37,712) (9,613) (1,639) (48,964)
Undiscounted future net cash flows 15,963 6,166 5,453 11,605 31,443 (70) 70,560 22,428 2,159 95,147
10 percent midyear annual discount
for timing of estimated cash flows (5,123) (3,646) (1,336) (3,137) (15,284) 322 (28,204) (13,902) (972) (43,078)
Standardized Measure
Net Cash Flows $ 10,840 $ 2,520 $ 4,117 $ 8,468 $ 16,159 $ 252 $ 42,356 $ 8,526 $ 1,187 $ 52,069
100
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
100
143262_Financials.indd   100 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 93 ---
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities - Unaudited
Table VII - Changes in the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows From Proved Reserves
The changes in present values between years, which can be significant, reflect changes in estimated proved-reserve quantities
and prices and assumptions used in forecasting production volumes and costs. Changes in the timing of production are
included with “Revisions of previous quantity estimates.”
Millions of dollars Consolidated Companies Affiliated Companies
Total Consolidated and
Affiliated Companies
Present Value at January 1, 2016 $ 52,055 $14,927 $ 66,982
Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced net of production costs (14,415) (2,788) (17,203)
Development costs incurred 12,732 2,473 15,205
Purchases of reserves (41) — (41)
Sales of reserves 528 — 528
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery less related costs 1,231 (917) 314
Revisions of previous quantity estimates 12,851 946 13,797
Net changes in prices, development and production costs (37,198) (9,798) (46,996)
Accretion of discount 7,888 2,113 10,001
Net change in income tax 6,724 2,758 9,482
Net change for 2016 (9,700) (5,213) (14,913)
Present Value at December 31, 2016 $ 42,355 $ 9,714 $ 52,069
Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced net of production costs (21,505) (5,234) (26,739)
Development costs incurred 9,417 3,721 13,138
Purchases of reserves 105 — 105
Sales of reserves (1,148) — (1,148)
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery less related costs 3,716 — 3,716
Revisions of previous quantity estimates 11,132 (1,085) 10,047
Net changes in prices, development and production costs 28,754 8,013 36,767
Accretion of discount 6,116 1,398 7,514
Net change in income tax (13,095) (2,361) (15,456)
Net change for 2017 23,492 4,452 27,944
Present Value at December 31, 2017 $ 65,847 $14,166 $ 80,013
Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced net of production costs (33,535) (6,813) (40,348)
Development costs incurred 9,723 5,044 14,767
Purchases of reserves 99 — 99
Sales of reserves (622) — (622)
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery less related costs 5,503 14 5,517
Revisions of previous quantity estimates 15,480 (2,255) 13,225
Net changes in prices, development and production costs 39,241 17,251 56,492
Accretion of discount 9,413 2,084 11,497
Net change in income tax (16,518) (4,795) (21,313)
Net change for 2018 28,784 10,530 39,314
Present Value at December 31, 2018 $ 94,631 $24,696 $119,327
101
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
101
143262_Financials.indd   101 3/4/19   11:55 AM

--- Page 94 ---
1879 
Incorporated in San Francisco, California,  
as the Pacific Coast Oil Company.
1900 
Acquired by the West Coast operations  
of John D. Rockefeller’s original Standard  
Oil Company.
1911 
Emerged as an autonomous entity —  
Standard Oil Company (California) —  
following U.S. Supreme Court decision  
to divide the Standard Oil conglomerate 
into 34 independent companies.
1926 
Acquired Pacific Oil Company to  
become Standard Oil Company of 
California (Socal).
1936 
Formed the Caltex Group of Companies, 
jointly owned by Socal and The Texas 
Company (later became Texaco), to  
combine Socal’s exploration and  
production interests in the Middle East  
and Indonesia and provide an outlet for 
crude oil through The Texas Company’s 
marketing network in Africa and Asia.
1947 
Acquired Signal Oil Company, obtaining  
the Signal brand name and adding  
2,000 retail stations in the  
western United States.
1961 
Acquired Standard Oil Company 
(Kentucky), a major petroleum products 
marketer in five southeastern states,  
to provide outlets for crude oil from  
southern Louisiana and the U.S. Gulf  
of Mexico, where the company was a 
major producer.
1984 
Acquired Gulf Corporation — nearly  
doubling the company’s crude oil and  
natural gas activities — and gained a  
significant presence in industrial  
chemicals, natural gas liquids and coal. 
Changed name to Chevron Corporation  
to identify with the name under which 
most products were marketed.
1988 
Purchased Tenneco Inc.’s U.S. Gulf of  
Mexico crude oil and natural gas  
properties, becoming one of the  
largest U.S. natural gas producers.
1993 
Formed Tengizchevroil, a joint venture 
with the Republic of Kazakhstan, to 
develop and produce the giant Tengiz 
Field, becoming the first major Western 
oil company to enter newly independent 
Kazakhstan.
1999 
Acquired Rutherford-Moran Oil 
Corporation. This acquisition provided 
inroads to Asian natural gas markets.
2001 
Merged with Texaco Inc. and changed 
name to ChevronTexaco Corporation. 
Became the second-largest U.S.-based 
energy company.
2002 
Relocated corporate headquarters from 
San Francisco, California, to San Ramon, 
California.
2005 
Acquired Unocal Corporation, an  
independent crude oil and natural gas 
exploration and production company. 
Unocal’s upstream assets bolstered 
Chevron’s already-strong position in 
the Asia-Pacific, U.S. Gulf of Mexico 
and Caspian regions. Changed name to 
Chevron Corporation to convey a clearer,  
stronger and more unified presence  
in the global marketplace.
2011  
Acquired Atlas Energy, Inc., an indepen-
dent U.S. developer and producer of 
shale gas resources. The acquired assets 
provided a targeted, high-quality core 
acreage position, primarily  
in the Marcellus Shale.
our history
we are proud of chevron’s 140-year history and are committed to upholding our legacy by  
providing the affordable, reliable, ever-cleaner energy that enables human progress

--- Page 95 ---
glossary of energy and financial terms
energy terms
Additives Specialty chemicals incorporated into fuels 
and lubricants that enhance the performance of the 
finished products.
Barrels of oil-equivalent (BOE) A unit of measure to 
quantify crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas 
amounts using the same basis. Natural gas volumes 
are converted to barrels on the basis of energy 
content. See oil-equivalent gas and production.
Condensate Hydrocarbons that are in a gaseous 
state at reservoir conditions, but condense into liquid 
as they travel up the wellbore and reach surface 
conditions.
Development Drilling, construction and related 
activities following discovery that are necessary to 
begin production and transportation of crude oil and 
natural gas.
Enhanced recovery Techniques used to increase or 
prolong production from crude oil and natural gas 
reservoirs.
Entitlement effects  The impact on Chevron’s share 
of net production and net proved reserves due to 
changes in crude oil and natural gas prices and 
spending levels between periods. Under production-
sharing contracts (PSCs) and variable-royalty 
provisions of certain agreements, price and spending 
variability can increase or decrease royalty burdens 
and/or volumes attributable to the company. For 
example, at higher prices, fewer volumes are required 
for Chevron to recover its costs under certain PSCs. 
Also under certain PSCs, Chevron’s share of future 
profit oil and/or gas is reduced once specified 
contractual thresholds are met, such as a cumulative 
return on investment. 
Exploration Searching for crude oil and/or natural 
gas by utilizing geologic and topographical studies, 
geophysical and seismic surveys, and drilling of wells.
Gas-to-liquids (GTL) A process that converts natural 
gas into high-quality liquid transportation fuels and 
other products.
Greenhouse gases Gases that trap heat in Earth’s 
atmosphere (e.g., water vapor, ozone, carbon 
dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, 
perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride).
Integrated energy company A company engaged in 
all aspects of the energy industry, including exploring 
for and producing crude oil and natural gas; refining, 
marketing and transporting crude oil, natural gas and 
refined products; manufacturing and distributing 
petrochemicals; and generating power.
Liquefied natural gas (LNG) Natural gas that is 
liquefied under extremely cold temperatures to 
facilitate storage or transportation in specially 
designed vessels.
Natural gas liquids (NGLs) Separated from natural 
gas, these include ethane, propane, butane and 
natural gasoline.
Oil-equivalent gas (OEG) The volume of natural gas 
needed to generate the equivalent amount of heat as 
a barrel of crude oil. Approximately 6,000 cubic feet 
of natural gas is equivalent to one barrel of crude oil.
Oil sands Naturally occurring mixture of bitumen  
(a heavy, viscous form of crude oil), water, sand and 
c
lay. Using hydroprocessing technology, bitumen can 
be refined to yield synthetic oil.
Petrochemicals  Compounds derived from 
petroleum. These include aromatics, which are used 
to make plastics, adhesives, synthetic fibers and 
household detergents; and olefins, which are used 
to make packaging, plastic pipes, tires, batteries, 
household detergents and synthetic motor oils.
Production Total production refers to all the crude 
oil (including synthetic oil), NGLs and natural gas 
produced from a property. Net production is the 
company’s share of total production after deducting 
both royalties paid to landowners and a government’s 
agreed-upon share of production under a PSC. 
Liquids production refers to crude oil, condensate, 
NGLs and synthetic oil volumes. Oil-equivalent 
production is the sum of the barrels of liquids and the 
oil-equivalent barrels of natural gas produced. See 
barrels of oil-equivalent and oil-equivalent gas.
Production-sharing contract  (PSC) An agreement 
between a government and a contractor (generally 
an oil and gas company) whereby production is 
shared between the parties in a prearranged manner. 
The contractor typically incurs all exploration, 
development and production costs, which are 
subsequently recoverable out of an agreed-upon 
share of any future PSC production, referred to 
as cost recovery oil and/or gas. Any remaining 
production, referred to as profit oil and/or gas, is 
shared between the parties on an agreed-upon 
basis as stipulated in the PSC. The government may 
also retain a share of PSC production as a royalty 
payment, and the contractor typically owes income 
tax on its portion of the profit oil and/or gas. The 
contractor’s share of PSC oil and/or gas production 
and reserves varies over time, as it is dependent on 
prices, costs and specific PSC terms.
Reserves Crude oil and natural gas contained in 
underground rock formations called reservoirs 
and saleable hydrocarbons extracted from oil 
sands, shale, coalbeds and other nonrenewable 
natural resources that are intended to be upgraded 
into synthetic oil or gas. Net proved reserves are 
the estimated quantities that geoscience and 
engineering data demonstrate with reasonable 
certainty to be economically producible in the future 
from known reservoirs under existing economic 
conditions, operating methods and government 
regulations and exclude royalties and interests 
owned by others. Estimates change as additional 
information becomes available. Oil-equivalent 
reserves are the sum of the liquids reserves and 
the oil-equivalent gas reserves. See barrels of oil-
equivalent and oil-equivalent gas. The company 
discloses only net proved reserves in its filings with 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Investors should refer to proved reserves disclosures 
in Chevron’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
ended December 31, 2018.
Resources Estimated quantities of oil and gas 
resources are recorded under Chevron’s 6P system, 
which is modeled after the Society of Petroleum 
Engineers’ Petroleum Resource Management System, 
and include quantities classified as proved, probable 
and possible reserves, plus those that remain 
contingent on commerciality. Unrisked resources, 
unrisked resource base and similar terms represent 
the arithmetic sum of the amounts recorded 
under each of these classifications. Recoverable 
resources, potentially recoverable volumes and 
similar terms represent estimated remaining 
quantities that are expected to be ultimately 
recoverable and produced in the future, adjusted 
to reflect the relative uncertainty represented by 
the various classifications. These estimates may 
change significantly as development work provides 
additional information. At times, original oil in 
place and similar terms are used to describe total 
hydrocarbons contained in a reservoir without regard 
to the likelihood of their being produced. All of these 
measures are considered by management in making 
capital investment and operating decisions and 
may provide some indication to stockholders of the 
resource potential of oil and gas properties in which 
the company has an interest.
Shale gas Natural gas produced from shale rock  
formations where the gas was sourced from within 
t
he shale itself. Shale is very fine-grained rock, 
characterized by low porosity and extremely low 
permeability. Production of shale gas normally 
requires formation stimulation such as the use of 
hydraulic fracturing (pumping a fluid-sand mixture 
into the formation under high pressure) to help 
produce the gas.
Synthetic oil A marketable and transportable 
hydrocarbon liquid, resembling crude oil, that is 
produced by upgrading highly viscous or solid 
hydrocarbons, such as extra-heavy crude oil and  
oil sands.
Tig
ht oil Liquid hydrocarbons produced from 
shale (also referred to as shale oil) and other rock 
formations with extremely low permeability. As 
with shale gas, production from tight oil reservoirs 
normally requires formation stimulation such as 
hydraulic fracturing.
financial terms
Cash flow from operating activities Cash generated 
from the company’s businesses; an indicator of a 
company’s ability to fund capital programs and 
stockholder distributions. Excludes cash flows related 
to the company’s financing and investing activities.
Debt ratio Total debt, including capital lease 
obligations, divided by total debt plus Chevron 
Corporation stockholders’ equity.
Earnings Net income attributable to Chevron 
Corporation as presented on the Consolidated 
Statement of Income.
Free cash flow The cash provided by operating 
activities less capital expenditures.
Margin The difference between the cost of 
purchasing, producing and/or marketing a product 
and its sales price.
Return on capital employed (ROCE) Ratio calculated 
by dividing earnings (adjusted for after-tax interest 
expense and noncontrolling interests) by the average 
of total debt, noncontrolling interests and Chevron 
Corporation stockholders’ equity for the year.
Return on stockholders’ equity Ratio calculated 
by dividing earnings by average Chevron Corporation 
s
tockholders’ equity. Average Chevron Corporation 
stockholders’ equity is computed by averaging 
the sum of the beginning-of-year and end-of-year 
balances. 
Total stockholder return (TSR) The return to 
stockholders as measured by stock price appreciation 
and reinvested dividends for a period of time.
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
103

--- Page 96 ---
Stock exchange listing
Chevron common stock is listed on the 
New York Stock Exchange. The symbol 
is “CVX.”
Stockholder information 
As of February 11, 2019, stockholders 
of record numbered approximately 
124,000. 
For questions about stock ownership, 
changes of address and dividend 
reinvestment programs, please contact 
Chevron’s Stock Transfer Agent: 
Computershare
P.O. Box 505000
Louisville, KY 40233-5000
800 368 8357 (U.S. and Canada)
201 680 6578 (outside the U.S. and 
Canada)
www.computershare.com/investor
Overnight correspondence should  
be sent to:
Computershare 
462 South 4th Street 
Suite 1600 
Louisville, KY 40202
 
The Computershare Investment Plan  
is a direct stock purchase and dividend 
reinvestment plan.
Dividend payment dates
Quarterly dividends on common 
stock are paid, generally, following 
declaration by the Board of Directors, 
on or about the 10th day of March,  
June, September and December.  
Direct deposit of dividends is available 
to stockholders. For information, 
contact Computershare.  
(See Stockholder Information.)
Annual meeting
The Annual Meeting of stockholders  
will be held at 8 a.m. PDT, Wednesday, 
May 29, 2019, at: 
Chevron Corporation 
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road 
San Ramon, CA 94583
Electronic access
In an effort to conserve natural 
resources and reduce the cost of 
printing and mailing proxy materials, 
we encourage stockholders to register 
to receive these documents by email 
and vote their shares on the Internet. 
Stockholders of record may sign up 
for electronic access (and beneficial 
stockholders may be able to request 
electronic access by contacting their 
broker or bank or Broadridge Financial 
Solutions) on this website:  
www.icsdelivery.com/cvx/.  
Enrollment is revocable until each year’s 
Annual Meeting record date. 
Investor information  
Securities analysts, portfolio managers 
and representatives of financial 
institutions may contact: 
Investor Relations 
Chevron Corporation 
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road 
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 
925 842 5690 
Email: invest@chevron.com
Notice
As used in this report, the term 
“Chevron” and such terms as “the 
company,” “the corporation,” “our,” 
“we,” “us” and “its” may refer to one 
or more of Chevron’s consolidated 
subsidiaries or to all of them taken as a 
whole. All of these terms are used for 
convenience only and are not intended 
as a precise description of any of the 
separate companies, each of which 
manages its own affairs.
Corporate headquarters
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324
925 842 1000
stockholder and investor information
Mike Wirth sat down with CNBC in 
March 2018 to discuss his priorities 
for the year after having  been 
named CEO and chairman.
Chevron Corporation 2018 Annual Report
104

--- Page 97 ---
Publications and other news sources
The Annual Report, distributed in April, 
summarizes the company’s financial 
performance in the preced
 in
g year and 
provides an overview of the company’s 
major activities.
Chevron’s Annual Report on Form 
10-K filed with the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission and the 
Supplement to the Annual Report, 
containing additional financial and 
operating data, are available on the 
company’s website, Chevron.com,  
or copies may be requested by 
contacting:
Investor Relations 
Chevron Corporation 
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road, A3140  
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 
925 842 5690 
Email: invest@chevron.com
The 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report  
is available in May on the company’s 
website, www.chevron.com/cr, 
where other Corporate Responsibility 
information can be found. A printed 
copy may be requested by writing to:
Corporate Affairs
Corporate Responsibility
Communications
Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
Building G
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324
An in-depth report that addresses 
Chevron’s framework for incorporating 
climate change into our governance, 
risk management, strategy, and actions 
and investments is available at www 
.chevron.com/climate-change-resilience. 
Details of the company’s political  
contributions for 2018 are available  
on the company’s website,  
www.chevron.com, or by writing to:
Corporate Affairs 
Chevron Corporation 
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road 
Building G 
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324
For additional information about the 
company and the energy industry, visit 
Chevron’s website, www.chevron.com.  
It includes articles, news releases, 
speeches, quarterly earnings 
information, the Proxy Statement and 
the complete text of this Annual Report.
thai cave rescue demonstrates  
the chevron way  
Sixteen Chevron employees and 18 
contractors mobilized to the cave 
site and were supported by nearly 
100 employees and contractors 
working around the clock as part of 
the Emergency Management Team.
In addition to personnel, Chevron 
also provided much-needed 
equipment. Within 24 hours of 
the Thai Navy SEALs’ request for 
resources, Chevron committed 
hundreds of oxygen tanks, dozens 
of tank packs and a number of gas 
detectors to monitor air quality in 
various cave chambers.
This Annual Report  contains forward-looking statements — identified by words such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “will,” “commit,” “position,” “focus,” “goal,” “target,” “schedule,” “plan,” 
“opportunity,” “strategy,” “project,” “forecast,” “on track” and similar phrases — that reflect management’s current estimates and beliefs, but are not guarantees of future results.  
Please see “Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information for the Purpose of ‘Safe Harbor’ Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation  
Reform Act of 1995” on page 27 for a discussion of some of  t
he factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
PRODUCED BY  Corporate Affairs and Comptroller’s Departments, Chevron Corporation  
DESIGN  Information Design & Communications, Chevron Corporation  PRINTING  ColorGraphics — Los Angeles, California
connect with us
www.chevron.com/annualreport2018


--- Page 98 ---
2018 
annual report
140 years of human progress
Chevron Corporation    201 8 Annual Report
Chevron Corporation
6001  Bollinger Canyon  Road,  San Ramon, CA  94583-2324  USA
www.chevron.com
© 2019 Chevron  Corporation.  All rights reserved.
100%  Recyclable
912-0981
105707_CVX_AR2018_CVR.R2.indd   1 3/18/19   12:57 PM