# Shell 2022 - Shell 2022 Chief Executive Officer review

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/shell/shell_2022_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 670-823
Selected text type: annual-report CEO review
Extraction note: Official annual-report Chief Executive Officer review; Chair message excluded.

---

Chief
Executive
Officer’s
review
“The stark realities we are
seeing globally reinforce
the need for a balanced
energy transition.”
Wael Sawan
Chief Executive Officer
It was more than a year ago that Russia invaded Ukraine, triggering a
war that has killed thousands and continues to wreck the lives of many
more. I hope and pray for an end to this devastating conflict that is
threatening the security of Europe.
We continue to provide support to our staff in both countries and
we are working with aid organisations in Ukraine and in bordering
countries, where millions of refugees are now trying to rebuild their
lives. In the days following the invasion, we announced our intention
to withdraw from our Russian oil and gas activities in a phased manner,
aligned with government guidance.
In 2022, the invasion and reduction of gas supply from Russia that
followed accelerated a surge in global energy prices. This pushed up
the cost of almost everything for households, industry, and businesses.
Europe took positive actions to secure energy supply with Germany,
for example, getting two floating regasification facilities up and running
by the end of the year.
Shell also did its part, responding with agility as an energy provider.
For example, we used our strength as a global energy producer and
supplier to deliver 194 cargoes of liquefied natural gas to Europe and
the UK – almost five times the usual average – and helped countries
like Germany and Austria ensure they had enough energy storage
ahead of their winter. I am proud of how our people stepped up
when called upon.
As we publish our Annual Report, the tragic aftermath of devastating
earthquakes in Turkey and Syria is still unfolding. We are supporting
our staff in the region, and they are working hard to keep fuel supplies
flowing to help relief efforts and keep hospitals operating.
The stark realities we are seeing globally reinforce the need for a
balanced energy transition. They also show that our Powering Progress
strategy is the right one: delivering secure and affordable energy with
increasingly lower emissions. We must do this profitably as we help
build the net-zero energy system of the future.
Generating shareholder value
In becoming Chief Executive Officer in January 2023, I succeeded
Ben van Beurden, who was CEO for nine years. In that time Ben
transformed Shell into a much stronger company and set us on the path
to net-zero emissions. I am grateful to Ben for his work and for what he
has handed over to me. In my first Annual Report as CEO, I want to be
clear: Shell is a great company, and we are changing to ensure we
become a great investment too.
In 2022, we made income of around $43 billion and our highest ever
Adjusted Earnings of around $40 billion. While the global business
environment for energy producers helped make this possible, our
Adjusted Earnings were still around $17 billion higher than in 2014,
when Brent prices were at similar levels. Thanks to improvements made
over the past few years, the quality of our portfolio also makes us
resilient to market volatility, and the streamlining of our organisation
has made us more efficient.
We delivered a cash flow from operations of more than
$68 billion and our organic free cash flow was around $48 billion.
This strong performance allowed us to increase our distributions to
shareholders and we returned around $26 billion to them through
share buybacks and dividends, which is more than 35% of our cash
flow from operations. We will continue to target shareholder
distributions with a hard floor of 20%, and the option of more than
30%, of our cash flow from operations, subject to Board approval.
Profit without sustainability erodes our licence to operate. Sustainability
without profit erodes our shareholder support and financial capacity to
play a meaningful part in the energy transition.

Investing to meet demand today
and in the future
We must continue to provide energy and do it with fewer emissions.
We can only do this with the backing of our shareholders because
it is their capital that enables us to invest in the energy transition.
Performance and discipline
In 2022, there were significant improvements in both personal
and process safety. The safety of our employees and contractors
is paramount. Despite our best efforts, I am saddened to say that in
2022 two of our contractor colleagues died tragically, one in Nigeria
and one in Pakistan. We will, as always, learn from these accidents
and do our utmost to keep our people safe and unharmed.
While our 2022 financial performance was strong, we can do even
better. We aim to be disciplined in allocating our capital by investing
in the best oil and gas projects and making investments in the energy
transition with a relentless focus on shareholder value and returns.
Our acquisition of Nature Energy, the largest producer of renewable
natural gas in Europe, is a case in point. This is a transformative
investment because Nature Energy will supply customers we already
have, while giving us access to new customers who want low-carbon
products. Another investment that promises value is our acquisition
of Sprng Energy group, a solar and wind platform in India, which has
added significant capacity to our renewable generation portfolio.
We also took the final investment decision to build Holland Hydrogen
1 in the Netherlands, which will be Europe’s largest renewable
hydrogen plant once operational from 2025.
In addition to this, our oil and gas activities are showing they can
operate according to our belief that value is more important than
volume. For example, our Vito deep-water oil platform, which produced
first oil in February 2023 in the Gulf of Mexico, was redesigned to
make the combined topsides and hull a third of the originally planned
size and reduce costs by more than 70%.
As part of our efforts to improve our operating performance, all our
businesses work within a rigorous capital and carbon budget. Shell
will continue to apply capital discipline as we require directorates to
adhere to our new carbon management framework, which sets limits
for the emissions in each business.
In early 2023, I moved to simplify our business and leadership
structure. By combining Integrated Gas with Upstream, and
Renewables and Energy Solutions with the Downstream business,
I believe we will be able to make faster, more focused decisions.
Balance and ingenuity
The energy transition must succeed, but balance is needed if society is
to leave nobody behind. Trying to dismantle the current energy system
before the new energy system is ready will lead to supply shortages
and higher prices. The transition must seek to ensure energy security,
affordability and sustainability.
Shell is ready to play a role in a balanced transition, profitably and
purposefully. As we delivered record profits for 2022, we also reduced
carbon emissions from our operations by over 30%, compared with
2016, our reference year. This is more than halfway towards our target
of a 50% reduction by 2030. We are also making progress in reducing
our fresh-water consumption in water-stressed areas and focusing on
chemical recycling.
As I take on the role of CEO, I am reminded of when I joined Shell
some 25 years ago. I was attracted to its core values of honesty,
integrity and respect for people. I believe those same values, along
with Shell’s diverse and exceptional talent, our assets and capabilities,
our brand and relationships, equip us well for the next phase of our
journey. We can make a real difference in the world and create value
for our shareholders by doing so.
Since my appointment was announced in September 2022, I have
spent time with our teams in a number of countries, including Brazil, the
Netherlands, Qatar, the UAE and the USA. I have drawn tremendous
energy and pride from seeing the outstanding work that our people are
engaged in every day. My single biggest contribution, along with my
Executive Committee, will be to find ways to harness the collective
energy and commitment that our 93,000 people possess.
Together, we have the ingenuity, talent and resilience to continue to
transform our business into one that performs with increasing discipline,
efficiency and excellence. We will unlock our potential, power
progress, and help make this balanced energy transition happen.
Wael Sawan
Chief Executive Officer
