# Shell 2025 - Shell 2025 Chief Executive Officer review

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/shell/shell_2025_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 449-615
Selected text type: annual-report CEO review
Extraction note: Official annual-report Chief Executive Officer review; page headers/footers lightly removed where obvious.

---

We are in a world defined by more uncertainty -- from
increasingly fragmented geopolitics, to the rapid rise of
artificial intelligence and the pressures of climate change.
Energy sits at the heart of this changing world, highlighting
the critical role of our sector.
As I write this message, amid the turmoil of the conflict in the Middle
East, we feel that critical role more than ever. We are focusing first and
foremost on the safety and well-being of our colleagues. I would like to
thank all our staff for their professionalism, commitment and the care
they continue to show for each other.
Shell has an important role to play in the evolving energy system. We
provide the oil and gas people need today, including liquefied natural
gas (LNG). We are also helping to build the energy system of the future,
with low-carbon energy products and solutions.
We are transforming into a more competitive and resilient business so
that we are in the best possible position to support the around a billion
people we serve, directly or indirectly, every year. We are building trust
in Shell as the investment case and partner of choice in a complex and
changing world.
At the heart of Shell's transformation is our focus on performance,
discipline and simplification. We are embedding this focus across our
organisation, from the way we make investment decisions to how we
reshape our retail network and maintain our oil and gas platforms,
improving reliability and production.
More value with less emissions
I am proud of how far we have come with our strategy to deliver more
value with less emissions, and grateful for the commitment and hard work
of everyone at Shell through a time of considerable change. We set out
to build a strong track record of performance, and we have done just that.
In 2025, we delivered on the financial targets that we set out at our
Capital Markets Day 2023 and, as a result, we set more ambitious
financial targets at our Capital Markets Day 2025. We reached
$5.1 billion in structural cost reductions* by the end of 2025, compared
with 2022, three years ahead of our target, with more to come.
We are on track to achieve our target to grow normalised free cash
flow per share* by more than 10% per year through to 2030,
underpinned by the growth we expect from our Integrated Gas and
LNG, Upstream and Marketing businesses, as well as the steps we
are taking to turn around underperforming capital investment.
We saw that growth reflected in our 2025 performance. Our LNG sales
increased by 11%, with a record number of LNG cargoes, supporting
our aim of a 4-5% increase per year to 2030. Our Mobility and
Lubricants businesses also produced their best-ever results, amid rising
demand for premium products.
At the same time, we continued to invest in the long-term strength of
our Upstream portfolio. We increased our interests across our leading
deep-water portfolio in the Gulf of America, Brazil and Nigeria, and
invested in oil and gas exploration to expand our core positions and
secure potential new opportunities.
In 2025, we delivered shareholder distributions at the top end of our
target of 40-50% of cash flow from operations* through the cycle.
We ended the year with one of the strongest balance sheets in our
industry, putting us in a good position for counter-cyclical opportunities.
We are making solid progress towards our climate-related targets and
ambition. By the end of 2025, we had achieved around 70% of our target
to halve our Scope 1 and 2 operational emissions by 2030, compared
with 2016. At the same time, we reduced the net carbon intensity of the
energy products we sell by 9%, compared with 2016, moving towards our
target of a 15-20% reduction by 2030. By the end of 2025, we had also
reduced emissions from the use of our oil products by 18% compared with
2021, as we progress towards our ambition of a 15-20% reduction by
2030. In a significant milestone for 2025, we achieved our target to
eliminate routine flaring from our upstream-operated assets.
While we have delivered in many areas, there is still more to do. Our
starting point must be safety. It must remain our number one priority.
In 2025, four colleagues tragically lost their lives in our operated
businesses. I feel that deeply, not just as a CEO but also as a colleague.
We owe it to them — and to everyone who works for us — to learn from
these incidents, and prevent such tragedies from ever happening again.
Integrated energy company
As we look to the future, we are making real progress on our strategy
to deliver more value with less emissions, putting us in a good position to
achieve our vision to be the world's leading integrated energy company.
Firstly, we took important steps to grow our integrated gas and LNG
business. Gas, especially in the form of LNG, is a stabilising force in the
energy system, providing flexibility, reliability and security of supply. It
is also a lower-carbon alternative to coal for industry and power, and
to diesel and fuel oil for heavy-duty transport and shipping. That is why
we believe that supplying LNG will be the biggest contribution we will
make to the energy transition over the next decade.
In June, the first cargoes left our LNG Canada joint venture, crossing
the Pacific Ocean to meet fast-growing demand from customers in
Asia. In 2025, we also completed the acquisition of Pavilion Energy
in Singapore, strengthening our LNG trading portfolio.
Secondly, we continued to focus on keeping liquids production stable, as
oil will be essential for the energy system for decades to come. We plan
to deliver new projects with more than 1 million barrels of oil equivalent a
day by 2030, and we have already added a quarter of that production
to our portfolio.
In 2025, we achieved our highest-ever quarterly production in Brazil,
and our highest quarterly production since 2005 in the Gulf of America.
We reached these record levels through the successful start-up of new
projects such as Whale in the Gulf of America, which reached nameplate
capacity in less than half the expected time.
We increased our stake in the Ursa platform in the Gulf of America,
unlocking more value from another asset that achieved a strong
operational performance in 2025. And in May, production started at
the Mero-4 floating production, storage and offloading facility, around
180 kilometres off the coast of Rio de Janeiro, further strengthening
our cost- and carbon-competitive deep-water portfolio.
We took an important step in the repositioning of our Upstream portfolio
with the divestment of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of
Nigeria Limited (SPDC) in March 2025. In the UK, we also started a new
chapter with our Adura joint venture, one of the largest independent oil
and gas producers in the UK North Sea.
Premium products
Thirdly, we continued to transform our Downstream, Renewables and
Energy Solutions businesses. In our Marketing business, we achieved
strong results as we continued to reshape our portfolio with the closure
or sale of around 800 lower-performing branded retail sites.
Our disciplined approach to capital allocation meant some tough
choices. In 2025, we completed the divestment of our Energy and
Chemicals Park in Singapore, and stopped construction of our Rotterdam
biofuels plant in the Netherlands because it would not have been
competitive enough to meet our customers' needs for affordable, low-
carbon products. In power, we withdrew from projects like the Atlantic
Shores Offshore Wind project in the USA to focus on energy storage,
flexible generation and trading.
Our focused approach puts us in a better position to serve our customers.
The Northern Lights joint venture, for example, has already transported
CO2 from its first industrial customers and injected it beneath the
Norwegian Sea. Northern Lights is now moving forward with phase
two, which will more than double its storage capacity. In the
Netherlands, construction of Holland Hydrogen I, one of Europe's largest
renewable hydrogen plants, is progressing well.
We will continue to look for opportunities where we can create value
for our shareholders. Today we have around $20 billion of our capital
employed* across lower-carbon platforms, including power (both gas-
fired and from renewable energy), low-carbon fuels, hydrogen, and
carbon capture and storage. We will develop them as government
policies and customer demand help create attractive business models.
We believe governments need to provide the predictability and stability
that companies like Shell need for long-term investments. We saw
some examples of this in 2025, with the German government's move
to implement the European Union's Renewable Energy Directive.
This requires increases in the share of renewable energy within the
electricity, heating, cooling, transport and industrial sectors.
Unlocking potential
To achieve our vision, we must unlock the full potential of all our
businesses, supported by our world-class trading and optimisation
capabilities. I saw that potential for myself when I visited with LNG
Canada staff in September. It is impressive how different parts of Shell
work together — producing the gas, turning it into LNG and shipping the
LNG to our customers. I sat with our traders as they worked side by side
with production operators to unlock even more value.
I remain extremely grateful to all our staff who are transforming our
great organisation into the best version that we can be. Their hard
work and determination have made Shell much stronger. I am proud
of our commitment to simplify, enable faster decisions and deliver the
full value of being an integrated business.
That is why I am confident saying that customers can trust that Shell will
deliver for them, that investors can trust that we will give them attractive
returns, and that partners can trust that we will be there when they need
us. In short, 'you can be sure of Shell'.
Wael Sawan
Chief Executive Officer
