# Shell 2020 - Shell 2020 Chief Executive Officer review

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/shell/shell_2020_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 523-643
Selected text type: annual-report CEO review
Extraction note: Official annual-report Chief Executive Officer review; includes continuation across the page break.

---

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
POWERING
PROGRESS
AND FACING
A PANDEMIC
In 2020 we began implementing our new safety approach, which places
greater emphasis on increasing the chances of people emerging unhurt
even if there is an incident. For the first year in our history, there were zero
fatal accidents in Shell-operated facilities. I want this achievement to spur
us on so that we keep working hard on safety.
THE GOALS OF POWERING PROGRESS
We worked towards refreshing our strategy in 2020, and in February
2021, we announced Powering Progress. It is what I believe Shell does.
It is what I believe Shell should continue to do.
Our Powering Progress strategy combines our ambitions under four goals:
generating shareholder value, achieving net-zero emissions, powering
lives and respecting nature. This will help us accelerate our progress
towards becoming a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050,
in step with society.
We will lower emissions from our operations, including the energy consumed
in running them, and help our customers to reduce their emissions from using
our products. Importantly, this will include emissions from oil and gas that
others produce and we then sell in our products – an industry-leading
approach.
Shell will deal with any of its remaining emissions using carbon capture and
storage (CCS) technology, or offsets where plants absorb carbon dioxide.
We expect our total oil production to reduce by 1-2% a year until 2030,
taking into account divestments and natural decline. But we expect
Upstream oil and gas production to deliver strong cash flows into the
2030s, underpinning our returns to shareholders and helping to fund the
low-carbon investments that will transform Shell’s energy mix. In all these
ways, Shell will change as the world adopts the low-carbon energy
system needed to tackle climate change.
WINNING IN A TRANSFORMED ENERGY SYSTEM
Customers and the choices they make will define the nature of the future
energy system.
I think the winning energy companies will be those, like Shell, who are best
placed to serve customers.
We serve more than 1 million commercial and industrial customers, and
30 million customers at 46,000 retail service stations every day.
We have the leading market positions. We have strong starting positions
in products and services that customers are going to want more and more:
biofuels, electric-vehicle charging networks, and hydrogen.
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic affected us all. Sadly, it claimed the
lives of 20 of our Shell colleagues. I heard the stories behind these
tragedies, and the cruelty of the pandemic really hit home.
The virus also wreaked havoc with the global economy, dramatically
suppressing energy demand. Our income went from $16.4 billion in 2019
to a loss of $21.5 billion in 2020, which included non-cash impairments of
$28.1 billion. In April, with oil prices falling rapidly, Shell took swift,
decisive action to preserve cash and stay resilient. We rebased the
dividend, lowering it by 66%.
It was a very difficult decision to make, but the right thing to do.
Our dividend payments went from $15.2 billion in 2019 to $7.4 billion in
2020. We combined rebasing the dividend with the discipline to reduce
cash capital expenditure from $23.9 billion in 2019 to $17.8 billion in
2020. We reduced net debt from $79.1 billion in 2019 to $75.4 billion
at the end of 2020.
In October, with global energy demand looking more robust, we raised
the dividend by 4% and signalled our intention to have annual dividend
increases, subject to Board approval.
Our industry-leading cash flows from operations confirm Shell’s underlying
strength. Despite the unprecedented challenges, we delivered cash flow
from operating activities of $34.1 billion in 2020, compared with
$42.2 billion in 2019.
Once we have reduced net debt to $65 billion, we will target total
shareholder distributions of 20-30% of cash flow from operations.
We can work with our customers to develop the low-carbon markets of
the future. In this way, Shell would generate value for shareholders while
working towards its net-zero carbon emissions target. Society would
benefit from reduced emissions.
Take the CrossWind consortium, a joint venture between Shell and Eneco
that in 2020 won the tender for the Hollandse Kust (noord) wind farm off
the Dutch coast. Shell’s plan is to use the wind farm’s renewable electricity
for powering the industrial-scale production of low-carbon hydrogen
by electrolysis, a process that splits water into oxygen and hydrogen.
We will then work with hauliers and truck manufacturers to develop a
market for hydrogen as a low-carbon fuel for heavy goods transport.
THE VALUE OF STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS
Hollandse Kust (noord) is helping Shell to form other important strategic
relationships. In February 2021, Amazon signed an agreement to buy
renewable electricity from the wind farm.
Through its air cargo fleet, Amazon also has a growing interest in aviation,
one of those sectors that will be hard to decarbonise. Shell has one of the
world’s most extensive aircraft refuelling networks. We can work with
customers, suppliers and regulators to develop a commercially viable and
profitable market for sustainable aviation fuel (SAF). We have agreed to
supply Amazon with up to six million gallons of blended SAF for its cargo
aircraft. This biofuel, produced by the company World Energy using
agricultural waste fats and oils, has lower life-cycle carbon emissions
than conventional jet fuel.
We also formed a strategic alliance with Microsoft in 2020. Shell is
supplying Microsoft with renewable energy, supporting it towards its
goal of using 100% renewable energy by 2025. Both businesses will
develop digital tools to help Shell’s customers decarbonise.
We are working on more of these strategic relationships, generating
value while helping sectors to reduce their carbon emissions.
In 2020 we announced a major reorganisation which will take effect from
August 2021. We believe this will make us more responsive to customers,
as a nimbler organisation with lower costs.
We expect to reduce between 7,000 and 9,000 jobs as we make these
changes. It will mean saying goodbye to many people who have shown
us great loyalty. We will do this in the spirit of our core values of honesty,
integrity and respect for people.
As we prepare for the years ahead, we can draw confidence from how
we rose to the challenges of 2020.
What struck me was how our people combined ingenuity with
determination to do the right thing: in applying financial discipline, in
supplying energy during lockdowns, in making donations to help their
communities fight COVID-19. In such hard times, our people generated
value for society, and Shell.
They fill me with confidence for the future. With a strong strategy and
good people, Shell will power progress for decades to come.
BEN VAN BEURDEN
Chief Executive Officer
