# Shell 2014 - Shell 2014 Chief Executive Officer review

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/shell/shell_2014_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 508-641
Selected text type: annual-report CEO review
Extraction note: Official annual-report Chief Executive Officer review; Chair message and later business sections excluded.

---

After my first year as Chief Executive Officer, I am pleased to see that
we are delivering on our three key priorities of improved financial
performance, enhanced capital efficiency and continued strong project
delivery.
We have come a long way. Shell’s earnings on a current cost of
supplies basis attributable to shareholders improved in 2014
compared with 2013, largely thanks to our prudent investment strategy
and delivery of major new projects around the world.
We achieved these better results despite the fall in oil prices during the
second half of 2014, a decline mainly caused by plentiful supply and
weak global demand.
Our improved operational performance, prudent spending and sales of
assets that are not central to our strategy helped us enter this period of
low oil prices from a position of strength.
But there is still work to be done. I want to see more competitive
performance across Shell in 2015 and beyond.
We continued our focus on safety, but sadly five people working for
Shell in 2014 lost their lives. There was also an explosion at our
Moerdijk chemical plant in the Netherlands, but thankfully it caused no
serious injuries.
Tragically, we lost four colleagues and eight of their family members in
the Malaysia Airlines disaster over Ukraine in July. That was a deeply
saddening experience for all.
2014 MILESTONES
For 2014, our earnings on a current cost of supplies basis attributable to
shareholders were $19 billion, which included impairments of $5 billion
and gains on divestments of $2 billion, compared with $17 billion in
2013, which included impairments of $4 billion. Net cash flow from
operating activities rose to $45 billion from $40 billion in 2013.
We reduced our capital investment from $46 billion in 2013 to
$37 billion.
Underlining our ongoing commitment to shareholder returns, we
distributed $12 billion to shareholders in dividends, including those
taken as shares under our Scrip Dividend Programme, and spent
$3 billion on share repurchases in 2014. This compares with
$11 billion of dividends and $5 billion of share repurchases in 2013.
Our Upstream earnings rose from 2013 to 2014, reflecting improved
operational performance and the start of production from new deep-
water projects. These included Gumusut-Kakap in Malaysia, which is
expected to produce up to 135 thousand barrels per day of oil
equivalent (boe/d) and the 40 thousand boe/d Bonga North West
development off the coast of Nigeria. We also began production from
the Cardamom and Olympus platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. However,
production from new projects was more than offset by the expiry of a
licence in Abu Dhabi and the impact of asset sales. Our oil and gas
production averaged 3.1 million boe/d in 2014, 4% less than in 2013.
The integration of the Repsol liquefied natural gas (LNG) businesses
acquired in January helped boost our LNG sales to 24 million tonnes,
up 22% on 2013.
It was a good year for our exploration drive, with 10 notable
discoveries. The resources we uncovered – including in the USA,
Gabon and Malaysia – could be important sources of gas and oil for
decades to come.
We continued to streamline our Downstream operations, selling most
of our businesses in Australia and Italy, for example. While there is
some growth potential in businesses such as chemicals, lubricants and
in China, we continue to look for opportunities to reduce our costs and
optimise our Downstream portfolio.
PRUDENT PATH OF GROWTH
The fall in oil prices in 2014 was part of the volatility our industry has
always faced. But it underlined the importance of being selective in our
investments and keeping a tight grip on costs.
Divestments, together with the initial public offering in Shell Midstream
Partners, L.P., generated $15 billion in proceeds in 2014. They
included shale oil and gas interests in North America and downstream
businesses in several countries, meeting our target for 2014-15 well
ahead of schedule. We plan to continue to divest assets in 2015.
To improve returns and control costs during this period of low prices,
we have also reduced our potential spending on organic growth by
$15 billion for 2015-2017. For example , together with our partners
Qatar Petroleum, we have decided not to proceed with the proposed
Al Karaana petrochemicals project in Qatar because it is too costly in
the current environment.
We expect organic capital investment to be lower in 2015 than 2014
levels of around $35 billion. But we want to preserve our growth to
ensure we continue to generate cash flow and dividends for our
shareholders. That is why we are still planning to invest in
economically-sound projects this year in key growth areas, such as
deep water and LNG.
Clearly, we do not want to miss future growth opportunities simply
because they may seem unaffordable in the low oil price world we see
today.
However, in this period of economic uncertainty, we also need to
remain cautious and are prepared to curb spending further if
warranted by the evolving market outlook.
STRONG LONG-TERM DEMAND
In the long term, we expect demand for energy to continue to rise as
populations and prosperity increase. Billions of people across the
developing world need better access to energy to improve their lives.
We expect the global energy supply mix to evolve significantly in the
decades ahead with gas, the cleanest-burning fossil fuel, becoming
more widely used for power generation. While we expect renewables
such as wind, solar and biofuels to play an increasing role, oil and
gas will be vital to meet the considerable expected increase in energy
demand.
At the same time, the need to tackle climate change requires effective
policies that help meet the world’s energy needs while significantly
reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions.
Facilities to capture and store CO2 should be a key part of the global
solution. Our Quest project to capture and safely store CO2 from a
Canadian oil sands facility is expected to be completed in 2015. We
are also planning a carbon capture and storage (CCS) facility at the
Peterhead gas-fired power plant in the UK.

Effective carbon-pricing systems are needed. They can drive a shift
from coal- to gas-fired power generation, encourage greater energy
efficiency and create the frameworks for the widespread use of CCS.
In the shorter term, the world economy is going through a period of
relatively slow growth. There is no change in the long-term outlook for
energy demand, however, as the global population rises and living
standards improve.
We will continue our strategy of strengthening our position as a leader
in the oil and gas industry while supplying energy in a responsible
way.
By stepping up our drive to improve our financial performance and
continuing to invest in good projects and opportunities, we are
working hard to add more value for our shareholders.
This may mean making tough choices during a testing time for the
energy industry. But it will help Shell deliver where it matters – the
bottom line. I am determined that we can and will combine the
disciplined pursuit of efficiency today with a vision of long-term
sustainability which will secure our leadership role in the decades to
come.
Ben van Beurden
Chief Executive Officer
