# Shell 2015 - Shell 2015 Chief Executive Officer review

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/shell/shell_2015_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 620-701
Selected text type: annual-report CEO review
Extraction note: Official annual-report Chief Executive Officer review; Chair message and risk factors excluded.

---

It was a highly challenging year for the industry, but our integrated business
and improved operational performance helped soften the impact of lower
energy prices.
In these difficult economic times, our acquisition of BG Group plc (BG),
which came into effect on February 15, 2016, will make us stronger.
The global portfolio we acquired is a good complement to our own. The
combination will help us concentrate on more profitable pillars of our
business, particularly deep water and liquefied natural gas (LNG). We are
entering an exciting new era for Shell.
We continued our focus on safety. However, sadly seven people working
for Shell in 2015 lost their lives. A fire at our Bukom refinery in Singapore
also led to six workers being injured. Such tragic events underscore the
importance of unwavering vigilance.
RESULTS
Earnings on a current cost of supplies basis attributable to Royal Dutch Shell
plc shareholders were $3.8 billion in 2015, compared with $19.0 billion
in 2014.
Lower oil prices and charges related to our exit from Alaska and decision to
stop work on the Carmon Creek project in Canada contributed to our
Upstream business making a loss in 2015. Strong performances by our
Integrated Gas and Downstream businesses helped offset some of the
impact of low energy prices. This is a reminder of the importance of
remaining an integrated energy company.
Responding to the changing industry landscape, we reduced our operating
expenses and capital investment by a combined $12.5 billion in 2015
compared with 2014. We distributed $12.0 billion to shareholders in
dividends in 2015, including those taken as shares under our Scrip
Dividend Programme.
Divestments amounted to $5.5 billion in 2015, and to more than
$20 billion for 2014-2015. This exceeded our target of $15 billion for the
period. The asset sales are part of our ongoing strategy of reducing costs
and concentrating on markets where we can be most competitive.
Our oil and gas production averaged around 3 million barrels of oil
equivalent per day in 2015. We started production at a major project off
the coast of Nigeria which, combined with increased output from existing
projects, helped partially offset the impact on production from naturally
declining fields and divestments.
RENEWED FOCUS
We continue to lower our costs and take tough decisions on projects that, in
the current oil-price environment, may be uncompetitive or unaffordable. For
example, we stopped construction of the Carmon Creek in-situ oil project in
2015 and exited the development of the Bab sour gas project in the United
Arab Emirates in early 2016. We are also postponing final investment
decisions on the Bonga South West project off the coast of Nigeria and the
LNG Canada facility.
Despite the current market uncertainty, it is important that we continue to
invest wisely to achieve the most competitive portfolio we can. For example,
we have decided to expand capacity at our Pernis refinery in the
Netherlands and embark on a major expansion at our Geismar plant in the
USA, reflecting the strong growth potential in chemicals for Shell.
In 2015, we announced the final investment decision to go ahead with the
Appomattox deep-water project in the Gulf of Mexico.
We are prepared to reduce investments further, if evolving market
conditions call for that. But we want to protect our growth prospects in a
world where long-term demand for energy will continue to rise.
Greater energy efficiency and cleaner technologies are needed to help
keep pace with energy demand growth, while limiting carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions in the fight against climate change.
Meeting the energy needs of a growing world population means oil and
gas are expected to continue to play vital roles in global energy supply into
the latter half of the century.
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) systems that safely trap CO2 deep underground can play an important part in the energy future. Shell started its
first major CCS facility, Quest, in Canada in 2015. Government-led carbon
pricing mechanisms can provide impartial and long-term incentives to invest
in effective lower-carbon technologies, such as CCS.
Natural gas, the cleanest-burning hydrocarbon, can play a role in limiting
emissions if more of it is used instead of coal for power generation. Gas is
also making a growing contribution as a transport fuel.
As a whole, the oil and gas industry is going through a difficult period.
However, our financial fortitude before the downturn and our sound strategy
are helping us through the rough weather.
The acquisition of BG reinforces and reinvigorates us, and I am confident
that our combined strength greatly improves our ability to thrive in a
challenging business environment.
Ben van Beurden
Chief Executive Officer
