# Shell 2016 - Shell 2016 Chief Executive Officer review

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/shell/shell_2016_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: custom: heading from line 595 plus body/signature from lines 506-594
Selected text type: annual-report CEO review
Extraction note: PDF text extraction places the CEO review heading after the signed body; extracted body and signature retained for review.

---

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW

Strict capital discipline, substantial cost savings and our integrated business
model helped support earnings during another challenging year for the oil and
gas industry.
Completing the BG Group plc (BG) acquisition in February was a great
achievement and undoubtedly the highlight of the year. I was also impressed by
how well Shell and BG teams worked together to complete the integration well
ahead of plan. BG has proven to be an important growth accelerator, as well as
a catalyst for the changes we are making to our work practices, cost structure
and global portfolio.
We also continued our unrelenting efforts to ensure safety wherever we work, but
sadly three people still lost their lives while working for Shell in 2016. Another
person was seriously injured in one of those incidents. Tragic events such as these
underscore the paramount importance of focusing on safety.
RESULTS
Income for the period was $4.8 billion in 2016 compared with $2.2 billion in
2015. Earnings on a current cost of supplies basis were $3.7 billion, compared
with $4.2 billion in 2015. We distributed $15 billion to shareholders in dividends
in 2016, including those taken as shares under our Scrip Dividend Programme.
The portfolio acquired with BG, combined with the start-up of the Gorgon
liquefied natural gas production facility in Australia, strengthened our role in the
growing global market for gas. Our oil and gas production also increased in
2016, driven by the portfolio we acquired with BG and the major deep-water
projects we started up in the Gulf of Mexico and off the coasts of Malaysia and
Brazil.
Overall, our production averaged 3.7 million barrels of oil equivalent per day
(boe/d), compared with 3.0 million boe/d in 2015. This increase was largely
driven by the acquisition of BG.
Refining margins were weaker in our Downstream business, while a modest rise
in crude oil prices gave some support to our Upstream earnings as the year
progressed. This again shows the strength of the integrated energy company
model.
MORE FOCUSED
We continued to streamline our Downstream business – including divestments in
Japan, Denmark and Malaysia – as part of our ongoing effort to improve
efficiency by lowering costs and concentrating on our most competitive
businesses.
We also sold Upstream assets, including in the Gulf of Mexico and in Canada,
and decided not to go ahead with the Bab gas project in the United Arab
Emirates. Our divestment drive gained momentum during the year and we plan
to continue selling assets in 2017 as part of our overall divestment programme of
$30 billion for the 2016-18 period. In March 2017 , we agreed to sell, in a series
of transactions, all of our in-situ and undeveloped oil sands interests in Canada
and to reduce our interest in the Athabasca Oil Sands Project from 60% to 10%.
This is a significant step in reshaping Shell’s portfolio in line with our long-term
strategy. See Note 30 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” on page 152.
The oil and gas market outlook remains uncertain. But it is important to continue
investing to achieve the most competitive portfolio. That is why we took final
investment decisions on petrochemicals projects in China and the USA in 2016.
Excluding the acquisition of BG, our capital investment was around $27 billion in
2016, which was about $20 billion below the combined level for Shell and BG
in 2014. We will maintain strict capital discipline and expect capital investment
to be around $25 billion in 2017 , at the lower end of our $25-30 billion range
for 2017-2020.
Our priority is to reduce debt following the BG deal and support shareholder
returns into the future.
RESHAPING SHELL
We remain ready to invest in the most competitive projects. But we are working
to reshape Shell into a more focused and resilient company by capping our
investments for the next few years, while continuing to drive down costs and to
sell assets.
Following the integration of BG, our Integrated Gas business has become an
engine for generating cash and returns. The increased strength of our global gas
business, combined with our other cash engines, should deliver rising free cash
flow from around 2020.
We plan to continue prioritising growth in our deep-water and chemicals
businesses beyond 2020. But we expect them to become major cash engines
over the next decade.
This should enable Shell to achieve the scale and profitability that will help us to
adapt and thrive in the transition to a lower-carbon global energy system. The
evolving energy landscape offers exciting potential for future growth and further
integration in our business. That is why we created a New Energies business in
2016 to explore and develop attractive commercial opportunities.
We expect demand for oil and gas to continue to grow. But we also intend to
build upon our portfolio and will continue to look at the potential of low-carbon
biofuels, hydrogen, solar and wind as the energy transition unfolds. Our New
Energies business intends to act with conviction and commercial realism – when
the value for shareholders and society is clear.
In the meantime, Shell’s existing oil and gas portfolio will help drive growth in free
cash flow over the next few years, across a range of possible oil prices. The
integration of BG has also reinforced the foundations for generating competitive
returns from our core oil and gas businesses over the longer term.
We have set an ambitious and clear path for the years ahead. We revitalised
Shell in 2016 and I am confident that 2017 will be another year of progress in
building our world-class investment case.
Ben van Beurden
Chief Executive Officer
