# Shell 2024 - Shell 2024 Chief Executive Officer review

Source extract: 02_extracted_text/shell/shell_2024_annual_report.txt
Source line range used: 454-595
Selected text type: annual-report CEO review
Extraction note: Official annual-report Chief Executive Officer review; page headers/footers lightly removed where obvious.

---

In 2024, the world experienced continued geopolitical
volatility. The Russia-Ukraine war entered its third year
and conflict escalated in the Middle East, bringing
personal tragedy to many. It was a time of political
change, with elections in more than 60 countries.
Energy security and affordability rose higher on political agendas, even
as the share of renewable energy grew. This came into sharp focus
during Europe's winter of 2024. Wind and solar power reached record
levels in the region, while liquefied natural gas (LNG) played a critical
role in keeping homes and businesses running when there was not
enough wind or sunlight.
With global demand for energy increasing, coupled with the challenge
of climate change, Shell continues to focus on its strategy to deliver
more value with less emissions. We believe the world needs to
maintain secure and affordable energy supplies while moving to
low-carbon energy.
In 2024, my second year as Chief Executive Officer, I am proud of
the progress we have made in putting our strategy into action. I want
to thank everyone at Shell for their contribution. We are growing
shareholder returns, while working to reduce emissions from our
operations and products. We are positioning Shell to win through the
energy transition on our journey to become a net-zero emissions energy
business by 2050.
Integrated energy company
Our strategy aims to grow our world-leading LNG business, which
provides flexibility alongside renewable energy, and a lower-carbon
alternative to coal. We expect that supplying LNG will be the biggest
contribution we will make to the energy transition over the next
decade, as we help to build the energy system of the future.
Building on our deep knowledge and strong partnerships, we are also
responsibly producing the oil that will be needed for decades to come,
with a focus on cost and carbon competitiveness. We intend to be the
most customer-focused energy marketer and trader in the world,
providing people with the energy they need to power their lives and
businesses. We are developing commercial models for low-carbon
solutions, such as biofuels. My vision is for Shell to become the world's
leading integrated energy company, delivering impact at scale,
connecting energy and people, matching supply to demand.
We have set out to transform Shell into a more focused and more
competitive energy business, and I am pleased to say that in 2024,
we moved forward at pace in that direction. Following our principles
of performance, discipline and simplification, we have made good
progress against the targets and ambition we presented at our Capital
Markets Day in 2023 and in our Energy Transition Strategy 2024.
More value
In 2024, we achieved our target to reduce structural costs* by $2-3
billion by the end of 2025, against 2022, one year ahead of time.
We continued to make disciplined investments, and difficult choices,
such as pausing construction of our biofuels plant in Rotterdam, the
Netherlands, to assess the most commercial way forward.
We are building a strong track record of performance. Shell reported
the second-highest cash flow from operations in our history in 2024,
outperforming our target for free cash flow growth. By the end of the
year, we had delivered at the top end of our target to distribute
30-40% of cash flow from operations to our shareholders*, mainly
through buybacks.
Our Prelude floating LNG facility off the coast of Australia had
record production in 2024, as did our QGC natural gas business in
Queensland, Australia, boosting our operational performance. We
added major new projects. We took a final investment decision on
Bonga North, off the coast of Nigeria, which is expected to start up by
the end of the decade and reach peak production of 110,000 barrels
of oil equivalent a day. Our US deep-water platform Whale started
production in January 2025, with estimated peak production of
100,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
Our agreement to acquire Pavilion Energy in Singapore further
strengthened our LNG portfolio with more sales and flexibility.
I also signed an agreement in Abu Dhabi to invest in the Ruwais LNG
project [A], which is designed to operate with lower carbon intensity
than traditional LNG plants. LNG Canada is expected to start
producing in the middle of 2025, the largest private-sector energy
investment in Canada's history.
Another example of our transformation is the sale of Shell Pakistan,
which is helping us to achieve our aim to divest around 500 retail sites
every year until 2025.
Less emissions
In 2024, we worked hard towards our climate goals. We abated more
than 1 million tonnes of CO2 from our operations through projects such
as reduced flaring and the use of renewable electricity. This allowed us
to keep our Scope 1 and 2 emissions roughly flat compared with 2023,
despite increased oil and gas production and asset utilisation. By the
end of 2024, we had achieved 60% of the reduction required to meet
our 2030 Scope 1 and 2 target.
Shell remains a leader in reducing emissions of methane, a potent
greenhouse gas that can be released during oil, gas and LNG
production. By the end of 2024, we had reduced total methane
emissions from assets under our operational control by 76% compared
with 2016. Total routine flaring from our upstream oil and gas assets
remained stable in 2024, and, as of January 1, 2025, we no longer
routinely flare from these assets.
[A] Subject to completion.
* Non-GAAP measure (see page 445).
When it comes to our sales, we achieved our short-term target to
reduce the net carbon intensity of the energy products we sell with
a 9% reduction compared with 2016, moving us closer to our target
of a 15-20% reduction by 2030 compared with 2016 levels.
By the end of 2024, we had installed more than 70,000 public charge
points for electric vehicles, a year ahead of schedule. I am encouraged
by the progress we are making in carbon capture and storage, with
plans for two linked projects in Canada. In Norway, our Northern Lights
joint venture is ready to offer commercial carbon transport and storage
as a service. I saw for myself another exciting initiative, our first
megawatt charger for electric trucks and ships in Amsterdam.
Beyond our operations, 2024 was an important year because the
Court of Appeal of The Hague dismissed Milieudefensie's claim against
Shell. I believe the decision was the right one for the energy transition
and our company. On February 11, 2025, Milieudefensie announced
that it was taking its case to the Netherlands' Supreme Court. I am
confident in the strength of our position.
Shell people
The safety of everyone at Shell remains our top priority. I am deeply
saddened by the deaths of four people working for Shell in 2024
and early 2025. These tragic incidents took place in India, Malaysia,
the Netherlands and Nigeria. My heart goes out to the families and
friends of these four people. We must continue to protect everyone
working for Shell, and we will learn from these and other incidents.
Shell's success depends on our people. I experienced the dynamism
and diversity of our teams when I visited our operations in Brazil,
China, India, Kuwait, Oman, Poland, Qatar, and the USA. I was
impressed by how they are embracing the principles of performance,
discipline and simplification in their everyday work.
I also spent Safety Day with our team at the Shell Polymers Monaca
chemical plant in the USA. Once again, I had the opportunity to
witness first-hand how far we have advanced our safety culture and
processes in recent years.
Investment case and partner of choice
I am convinced that we are the best positioned energy company to
navigate the energy transition because of our people, our connections
to customers, and our portfolio of world-class assets. We are building on
these strengths by transforming Shell. We are becoming a more focused
and competitive business, so that we are the investment case and partner
of choice through the energy transition. We had another strong year in
2024, and we have more to do. I am confident that our strategy,
executed with conviction and determination, is working. We are on the
path to becoming the world's leading integrated energy company.
Wael Sawan
Chief Executive Officer
