Subscribe
Featured Insights: Explore the ideas shaping the future of business
Featured Insights: Explore the ideas shaping the future of business
Manage Subscriptions
Subscribe
Each year, we assess the current state of the art in
corporate innovation
and examine how the most innovative companies are reshaping, directing, organizing, and fueling their innovation engines. We also survey the changing landscape of innovation trends and challenges as well as of supporting technologies—and delve into their implications for product, service, and
business model innovation
.
You can explore the collection below.
Most Innovative Companies 2025: In Disruptive Times, the Resilient Win
How has the innovation landscape evolved over two decades? And how should leaders prepare for what comes next?
Learn More
Explore Recent Most Innovative Companies Reports
Innovation Strategy and Delivery
Report
June 4, 2024
Innovation Systems Need a Reboot
Companies have never placed a higher priority on innovation—yet they have never been as unready to deliver on their innovation aspirations. And GenAI is coming.
Learn More
Innovation Strategy and Delivery
Report
May 23, 2023
Reaching New Heights in Uncertain Times
What does it take to build a resilient innovation engine? And how are leading innovators using AI?
Learn More
Innovation Strategy and Delivery
Report
September 15, 2022
Are You Ready for Green Growth?
Companies have plenty of “will” but much less “way” when it comes to climate and sustainability innovation readiness.
Learn More
Innovation Strategy and Delivery
Report
April 15, 2021
Overcoming the Innovation Readiness Gap
More companies say innovation is a top-three CEO priority. Many are allocating the resources to prove it. But are they prepared to deliver?
Learn More
Explore Earlier Most Innovative Companies Reports
Our Most Innovative Companies research began in 2004 and has since covered a broad range of topics relevant to innovation leaders, from digital to downturns.
2020 | The Serial Innovation Imperative
2019 | The Rise of AI, Platforms, and Ecosystems
2018 | Innovators Go All In on Digital
2016 | Getting Past “Not Invented Here”
2015 | Four Factors That Differentiate Leaders
2014 | Breaking Through Is Hard to Do
2013 | Lessons from Leaders
2012 | The State of the Art in Leading Industries
2010 | A Return to Prominence
2009 | Making Hard Decisions in the Downturn
2008 | Is the Tide Turning?
2007 | Innovation 2007
2006 | Innovation 2006
2005 | Innovation 2005
2004 | Innovation 2004
Meet the Most Innovative Companies Team
Justin Manly
Managing Director & Senior Partner
Chicago
Amy MacDougall
Partner
Los Angeles
Johann Harnoss
Partner and Associate Director, Innovation; People Chair, BCG Henderson Institute
Washington, DC
Jacob Wolke-Perten
Alumnus
Wendi Backler
Partner & Director, Innovation Analytics & IP
Toronto
Ketil Gjerstad
Managing Director & Senior Partner
Oslo
Ryoji Kimura
Managing Director & Senior Partner; Asia Pacific People Chair
Tokyo
Beth Viner
Alumna
See More of Our Innovation Consulting Team
Explore Related Services
Capability
Innovation Strategy and Delivery
BCG’s i2i Innovation Benchmarking Tool
Our Latest Thinking on Innovation Strategy and Delivery
